Alexander Wrightopening1Alexander Wrightopeningfor Mum and Dad2The days of my youthThe days of my youthlately seem likedifferent dreams,all strung togetherthrough the longdark night of my soul.To think there was a timewhen I might never have awokenfrom those happy dreams,and might never have lived throughthis fitful, restless,dreamless night that never ends.3MemoriesMemoriesswarm inside my headlike the rough debris of time;time, the ticking clockwhich numbers human daysand adds them allto zero.Memoriesare the ripples on the waterwhich we so easily create,never knowing that life is hidingright there,beneath the surface.4The passing of timeThe passing of time heals not.Nor does the dawnwith its nascent glowcure the sorrowsof the dead midnight hour.As years passlike the fragments of one night’s dreamI find that invisible woundsare left untouchedby the invisible might of time.All I can feel,as my life is hurried forth,is the rip-tide of timepulling me from shore.5I am changingI am changing.I change apart, away,off in the distance where I don’t belong;under an old nameI feel new fearsand fresh joys,down in the depths of myself.I change without knowing why,how, or in what way;I change as do the dark and light,intertwining and splittingeach to each,day by day.6GreyI watch myself changelike you watch the day turna pale grey,and the crowds of people passing inbehind the heavy doorsnow that the sun is gone.These words,this face in the glasswith hollow eyes;my skin a crumbling disguiseas I assimilate and changeconstantly inside.7SpectreI am made of every momentthat lingers in the past;all the minutiae of the everydayinsignificant eventswhich pile higher and higherinto the strange shape of a man.A spectre of forgotten dust that loomsupon a pale horizon;a ghostly shadewho flickers in the lightand vanishes into lengthening shadows.I am a man.These are my eyes,these are my hands,scribbling out messageswritten in the sandwhich shifts and cracksand crumbles into nothing.I see what I have becomelike the morning sees the bastard nightretreating into its abyss.8My inner demonsMy inner demonsrun rampant in my dreams,turning memories to dustwhich crumblesat the slightest touch.My inner demonslie waiting in the shadowsand hide in every smileand within every wordof conversation.My inner demonsare cruel and crafty kingswho prey upon my weaknessand break down my defenceswhen I am lonesome.My inner demonsrule in the darkness of my heart,and my inner angels burst apartlike soldiers made of glassmarching on the kingdom.9DrunkDrunk on my own sense ofloneliness,in an exponential silencethat grows and grows and –Awake in this hour of the dead,breathing the airof fleeting midnight;cold fingers clutch my throatas time palpitates wildly.Reverberating in the stillness,a starting gun I missedsome time ago;and here, nowI eat the dustfrom the other’s heels.The room seems to shrink around meuntil it’s nothing but a tomband I devour silenceas the worms of regretwrithe between my bones.10DownwardI move downwardthrough the inferno circlestowards my purgatory of madness,dreaming deep of paradiselost, found beaten and abusedand raped on the other sideof what can be perceived.The mind of man is bleakand without the feminine beautywhich has always made me weakas a worshipper, your gentle soulmy oasis in the ether of eternalstruggles with this turbulence of mind,my inner demons always finding waysto pull the blinds and shut me off.Who can save the drowningcripple cast overboard, heaving seasslowly crushing who he waswhile the ship sails fardown currents made for menwho cannot see the horizonbleeding slowly, ink trailsflowing over rolling wavesand into the gaping mouthof the drowned.Who am I going to bewhen all is said and doneand I have become death;destroyer, magnificent overlordof what we live our lives by.11Who will I bewhen I am finishedand my story is setin stone, my candle blownand the room now cold and black.12Without hopeWithout hope,the sun is a bitter regretat the back of my mind.I am exhaustedand the dreams of youthforgotten.I feelrestless hands pull me back,clawing at my skin,pulling me downinto the deepest depths of shadow.My shadows;my Kingdom of Rain.I feelimpossibly fragile,desperately weakas the strength of timepulls me in.Too weak to succeedagainst so much sadness;so much inevitable pain.And nowall the sadness in the worldis mine.It seems that after all the desperate effort,I cannot live in the light;the beautiful lightI have loved so deeplyfor so long.13Tonight inside my chestmy heart is coldand it is slowing.Beat by beat,moment by moment,slowingas the hands of the clockgrind to a halt.14This is the silenceThis is the silence that breedsin the dead midnight hour,which aches in the abyssof tomorrow’s pestilence.This is a darknessthat collapses upon itself,perpetuating nothingnesswhile the shadows implode.I have finally foundthe kingdom that waitsat the bottom of eternity.I have finally seenthe ancient face of deathleering at mefrom the corner of my room.This is the soulin the final conflict of existence;this is life on the edgeof the final abyss…I write in turmoilas the hands of the clockbludgeon me to death.15If love can dieIf love can dieI want to stand by its tomband know the true silenceof a broken heart.Without proofmy tortured wretch of a heartcontinues to struggle vainlythrough each day,as though love could come again.Let me understand the deathof what it was to love you;I need an idol to mournthrough these long cold nightswhich pass without hopeof love’s obsession.The need for closurewill eat me alive,as surely as the wormswill devour the flesh of our lovein some dark and distantnightmarish cryptwhose key you’ve cast away.16We lit the fuseWe lit the fuseand ran so hard we might have flownthrough the streets that murmured our names.Amidst the howling wind and towering flamewe chased timeand spaceand youthand lifeand love.Now I lie here still as stonein a black roomas tears streak my faceand my eyes burst like dams.I gotleftbehind.I wish you knewthat for methose nights never ended.When we were the only ones aliveand we chased down the timewe knew would come.Well it was gone too soonand I am finished.This is the cold dawn,the morning silence,the debris scattered on the floor.The walk to the shops,the slow recollection,the revisiting.This is piecing together17the dreams we shared and threw awayin a glorious blaze of light that left us coldand afraidwhen it was over.On those nights we ran so hardI could have swornwe flew.18In dreaming of youIn dreaming of youthe night is kept from coldness,yet the sun is not permitted to shine;only the everlasting light of your soul exists,and the sound of my voiceas I whisper your nameendlesslyinto the magical twilightI’ve ceased to belong to.19Of all the dreams I ever hadOf all the dreams I ever had,the dream of you and Ilooms largestand shines brightestin the secret,ever-feeling centreof my mind.I would trade anything in the worldjust to understandwhat it would feel liketo hold you in my armsas I have imagined itten thousand times overin dreams.If only you understoodwhat my soul screams into the silencethat goes unbrokennight after night;if only the weight of lovehad never rested on my heart,too weak to know you.20My heartMy heartis that last lonely cloudscuttling across the skybefore the sun comes out.My heartis the last rippleslowly diminishingas the water calms and is still again.My heartis the last finger of darknesswhich, when drawn away,does not return until the cold night comesand the world returns to sleep once more.My heart is woundedand so tiredthat it forgets to love.21The fire inside my heartThe fire inside my heartis a disease with no contagion,a shot without a warning,an emissary with no message to convey.I want without needingand I feel without knowing whyas my heart burns with the flameof a setting sky.When darkness comesI will slip into the nightwhere no one searcheswith only my dreams to keep me warm.22Winter chillWinter chilland I wander lonesomethrough the dawn of myself.Where am I nowif not at the precipice of infinityas the expanse of timebows its headand cowers at my feet.I seek,and with my hungry handsI touch the tender earth,the biting wind,the flickering flame,and there I feel soft flesh.Tenderly caressthe immortality of being alone,of being human;this animal, primal,sinful being,searching always,never finding.Yet in my darkness I dream new dreams,and the bones of my body uphold the earth.I close my eyes,and as I transcendI travel through spaceas the imagination of myself.Every day I wakewoven in the fabric of timeand I am one witheverything.23Winter windsWinter windsand the heart is lonesomewithout your love to guide it;childhood memorieschasing their tailthrough my dogmatic mindand the frozen world in whichI find myself.I miss youas the night misses the sunlightwhich fell upon the earthlike illuminated crystalsshowing me my past,present, and futurealigned and set ablazeby your infinite azure eyes.I want to be therewhen you laugh again.My arms are cold and open,waiting for youto bring the warmthI still rememberon lonesome nights away from home.You were my centreand without you I am a lonely planetrevolving through a sunless sky,lost and without purposeas I drift away and wonderif I’ll ever get to say goodbye.24What is her name?What is her name?The woman in my dreams,who smiles in the foldsof white sheets;the mother of my children,sitting by my sideas they play by tree-lined streets;the soulmate,the counterpoint I havegone looking for.So long I have been lonesomefor the touch of someonewho wanted more than justa brief moment in my life.Where are the womenwho search as I search,who want as I wantfor the ultimate?I wonder at her nameor whether she even exists,for maybe I am justa fool again.I wonder whyI seek this loveso deeply,swiftly,irreversiblysoon.I chose my children’s nameswhen I was eight years old.One girl,25one boy,born in that order,perfect in their way.I picture themand their mother lingers in the frame,too blurry to make out,too uncertain to be sureof who she is.She is a spectre,haunting me,taunting me from the ideal,and she may nevercome to be.She may never know me,love me,or walk this earthbeside me.I want heras the day wants the night,reclining in its inky assuranceof silence.I want heras lungs want air,as trees want leaves,as space wants stars,as lips want lips want lips.I kiss.I kiss the air.There’s no one there.26What do you see?What do you seewith eyes that pore over my skinlike TV screen video feedsprobing the drama withinor even lingering on fleshand all the corners of my formas I was born, as I have lived,returning eventually to liedown in the damp eternity of the deathI always thought I’d die.What do you seein my eyes, my smile,my broken words betweenthe silences I speak with.My secrets seep outof my pores all of the dayand there’s nothing I can do or say,no way to keep my truths withinhidden. I’ve been livingunder masks for far too long.What do you seewhen you study my face,my skinny wrists and anklesor the way I pull in at the waist;they used to say that I looked like a girl.My legs and arms and chest and neckand back and backside, feet, handsclasping fingers holding rosebudlanterns in the night, and still I mightnever know how I appear.You made me feel handsomewhile you were here.27What do you seewhen you have met mefor a little while, brief momentsin an overlong songI sing in drunken monosyllabicgrunts and protestations.Eyes like trainswhen they departtheir stations.Study my hands, my facefor all its flaws.What are the thingswhich you would change?Would you rearrange me?I want to know whetheryou see inside, my lifeof lies and simple truthskept secret in the silentcell of myself, as I rebelagainst the way that people use mefor their own.Could you adore me?Could you learn to lovethe light within my eyes?As I have loved a dozen timesand still I miss you, and still I wishthat you were mine.Whoever you are,kind stranger on the horizonshimmering before and above me,pure as the rising sunwho may yet love me.28I need your loveI need your lovelike the moon needs a night to brighten,laying my head on your handas though bliss can be never-ending.I need the red blossom of your lipslike a dying man in the desertneeds the water he stumbles to find.You are my oasisand I lie parchedand prostrate at your door.My queen, ultimate kingdommade of sinful, lustfulsecret demandsI immediately obey.As I worship at your altar,thread your fingers through mineand pull you closer,our eyes connectedwith that electric light of ecstasyI want most to feel again.You push yourself forwarduntil you feel the breath of me,and I head toward your kingdomas though it were my own,arriving home withintowering walls built from your desire.Your slender legscaressing the back of my neck,your hands on my head,your hair falling in wavesso that I’m blinded.29You shudder and shakeand claw my skin to shredswith fingernails painted blackand sharpened like small daggerscovered in burning wax.This bed, a life raftfloating on a sea of dreams.We do not swim,we do not dive or sinkor touch the water once;we float and fuckand finally move beyondmortal bodies to the infinite,bold voyagers entwineduntil the clocks stop keeping time.There is nothing other than thiswhen I am whole again,lost in your soul againwith not a sin absolved by now.As I share with you my heart,body, soul, and mind controlledand set free by what you give me.Within you, without youI give into the urge once moreand wake up dazed and unsureby the oceans of your lustful soul,stripped naked, bruised and sore,far from home on an empty shore.30The way you kissed meThe way you kissed memade me thinkthat you would make me cry,and I was right.I writeas the shards of our romancecrumble in my hands.But don’t forget the tender kisses,the whispering momentsand giggles between the sheetsthat fell on your faceand across your breasts like a shroud.I’d never seensomeone as beautiful as you.My heart is heavywith the knowledgethat I’ll never feel your lips again;your skin on my skin,your warmthor the wetness within.I rememberthe nights you lingered,staying for another hour or threeas the light of the morningbirthed itselfcontinuously.After, I would lie for hours in our bedand watch the dawn,knowing that the sheetsstill carried your scent,31knowing that you were gone,and somehow Icould never bring myselfto move on.32When I kissed your neckWhen I kissed your neckyou breathed deeply in my ear,and when you took my handand placed it on your breastI felt your heart beat there.Chemicals in my brainand all I wantare your lily-white tender handspawing on my skin,knocking from the outside in.Let me in,let me in,let me live inside your heartuntil the world ends.And let me know that your spiritflows to and from my own,in endless rays of lightpouring from your soulso that I am nevercold again.When you look at meI feel like more than I am;I feel like a better man.I feel like I could die youngand not regret a thingfor knowing you,for knowing this,for endless blisscounted in the number of timeswe kissed.33She loves meWhose hands are thesewhich touch me in the nightwhile I awake, and there she lieshalf-buried in the depressed sheetswe’ve shared while never speaking.Who are you, kissing on my eyelidsas I see the day for the first timeand feel the rhythm of the earthand the energy of space combine.Who feels me there, so tenderlythe night air grows less coldand her breath steams up my skinand her lips whisper kisses on my chin.Whose eyes are those, cast darkerby the exponential shadows of my room,and hidden in the gloomy near fieldI cannot seem to see through.Whose dreams are these I’ve shared,whose children are these I’ve fathered,whose love I would travelto the end of the Earthand bear a deadly curse for;who I love,who touches me so gentlyas though she loves me,as though she loves me.34Your beauty, my soulYour beauty, my soul,the widened hole insideI feel when you’re not with me.And I miss you.And I miss you.And I miss those little kissesyou plant upon my cheekslike seedlings that one day growinto the flowers I perch beside your window.Where did those days go,of our infant loveand your watercolour handsupon my own,and sewn into your skinmy tapestry.When you look at meI break apart, for you are allthat I have ever wanted.I am that hunterin the lonely night.You are the light,gas lamp hung upon the doorof the cabin that I climb toand the bed upon which I reclineas you hold me.As you hold me.The leaves burst from the treeslike the fireworks in your eyeswhen we’re together.35I have strolled upon the avenuesin waking dreams of you;this waking life, this precious timein which your tangible formis mine and only mine.And these rhymes echo,constantly until I see your image blurinto the world, into my mind,into the void behind the veilof my desire.You are the fire of my life.You are the passionwhich I have always failed to describe.36My mirageAcross the desolate landscape of myselfyou are the desert wind, pale mirageshimmering gently through the heat haze.You are the cool lakes of waterand sheltering trees which break apartmy lonely vanity and shameless self-deceit.You are the healing lightwhich both saves and scorches my skin,gently surrounding me with warmtenderness and glowing passionin the absent-minded tyranny of dayturning to night as abstract stars burn meekly.Observe my heartin all its cracks and ridgesand soft mountainous crests made out of sandand clay, and dirt, and crumbling stoneso weathered down it’s barely there.Observe how you come to melike tender salvation in the nightto make me cool, and calm,and devoid of the bare terror of yesterday.I feel you descend upon melike the shadows of the withered treescasting flickering shapes in the dying lightfiltered across the expanse of myself,borne of nothing,steeped in sadness.37Your embraceI have loved youas an exiled man has loved his home,so long you are a vision and ideaof dreams and peace through this penumbramore than you are a woman,more than that you live still,more than that you are out thereacross the seas which heaveand breathe life as yougive life to me.That lonesome moon which hovers,hung so perfectly in that shroudof infinite night I gaze through.I see you.I see the innocence of youthand how I began to lovewith such force, those seascrashing onto the rocks of my shore,your waves, my stone handswhich cease to hold youand only breakas you erode me,as the memory of youfades, and I decayas all those shoresone day crumble to the sea,and finally you have mefor your own.Your embracemy home.38OverflowYour fingers part the fabricwhich whispers across your pink skin,your legs trembling while you push deeper in.The contours there of perfect legspulled high, and I see allyour secret landscapes, ridges, valleys,folds of flesh and your portalswhich bridge your ecstasy to mine.Your heaving breasts, your heavy sighs,your frenzied hands as you unclasp me,grasp me, wordlessly take me for your own.A moan or two and we are in this,eye on eye on skin on lips,on your pleasure, on mine,on sweat and spit and the linesour bodies draw over these sheets,the floor, the walls, the semaphoreof your head as it moves,of my head as it moves,of our bodies as we pull, push,and all as you stare through melike you see what you can doand how it reduces me to somethingyou can own, claim your own,bring me to my kneesor you on yours,or you beg me for morewhile we’re entangled.I feel you gripping me with hipsat tilted angles.I feel you shake, I feel you tremble,I control you king to queen,queen to king, you control meand I lose everything.39I hear you whisperand I see eternitybriefly.You simply smile as you release me,smile as you know,smile as youoverflow.40Your skin on mineYour skin on mineas the morning light peeks throughthe whitewashed blindsand I taste your lips,pulling you closeas though it were the last time.TenderlyI caress you,undress you andworship you in the half-lightdawn breaking over usand this hangover of lust.Inside you,let me be everything you need.Let me sing the songsthat make you swoon,lover in my tangled limbsand hungry hands.Let the light of our loveshine brighter than the sun,silhouetted formsthat push and shoveand combine to onewrithing eternity.Wherever you end,I begin.I kiss your eyelids,caress your face,and grasp your fleshas I enter in.41Give in to wanting.Open the gatesand let me swimin hot oceansthat melt the heartof many a man.I want you again and again,whenever I can,with your hand in minefrom dawn to dusk and starlight,shining over your skinas we begin to loveand share our soulsuntil we are one in sin.Young and full of youthfulwants and whims.I want nothing else.Only the sweat and spitand pure longingthat belong in this bed,your hands upon my headas you come closer.I only want to existwith you, with this,these kissesand the tendernessof your lips as they devour me.I want you tooverpower me.42Your tender eyesYour tender eyesand I recline upon the bed,you in my head like fever dreamsand I am feverish, fecund maledevoted follower of flesh,and I undress, and you undress,and I lay my head between your breastsand kiss you. I haven’t sleptin days, and ohhow I have missed you.Your tender eyesand I am grasping at your fleshas you caress the notches in my spine,and I kiss a line slowly down your torsountil you push your legsso forcefully that we combine,and I feel the thoughts within my head goout into the space beyond our framesand into night skies lit with little starsand all their flameslook like they were lit for us.Your tender eyesand you are mine in thisand every other moment,you grab each inchof my body as you own it,and when I kiss your neckI hear your heartbeat climbingand your moaningmakes me feel like there’s noliving left for dying.I wake and hearthe open window sighing.43Tonight I sleepTonight I sleepwhere I cannot dream,in a quiet chemical stillness,lost in rooms of madnessI cannot bear.Skin and bone,eyes that gaze into the etheras I silently crumble in despair.I look into halogen glassand know there’s no one there.Under observation,I bet you couldn’t picture thispale flesh caressedby needle marksbeneath the doctor’s gaze.Madness and my acid brainmoving further into the abyssas little by little,bit by bit,I waste away.Time stretches on,but I won’t let it stretcha moment longer.I wish I were stronger.44I am lostI am lostwithin myself;I am wanderingthrough the ether of my soul,torn and tatteredduring the closing sequenceof my childhood.I sleep at nightand dream as the day is born,carrying these visionsof the sweet surreality of life,of these people who pass me bywith their own reflectionin their numb eyes.Too strange to live,too rare to die,too blind to seeI belong on the outside,far from the happy livesyou lead without me.45I fade awayI fade away.As surely as the day grows darker,I push farther and farther out from shore.Mindless and afraid,I look into the face of deathand draw nearer.The weight of time,the burden of expectation,the unbearable temptationto lose it all.As surely as I live,as surely as I dieby the choices I have made,I wake up and the world is strange.I look into my eyescrying pale tears in the hollow glassand see them fade.Little by littleI am erased.46White linoleumWhite linoleum counter,and I sign the formand then they strip me.Sleepless nightbehind the glass,halogen ceiling lightsand hospital gownsturned inside-outto try and hide my body.Doctor’s ordersand I am whisked away,wheelchair and the empty staresmake me tear apart inside.Vaguely aware, they sign me inand begin to heal me.They touch my skin, it’s barebut can they feel me?Five men, darkened room,pencil and paper in my fistas I resist the urge to screamas others do, my little beda long blue sheet drawn closed obliquely.The guards routinely peekand check my wrists and neckfor any marks. It’s dark,but I can see the futureand it is bleak as the past.Slow malaise, painful daysspent watching drool pouring down chinsand all the patients taking inthe pills they give you, and all I didwas write and pace the halls in slipper shoes47and scream about abuse, pleadingthat I did not belong there,down where time forgets you.I felt a lifetime pass me bybefore they let me lie and say I learntall of my lessons.The paperwork,and I was let into the light.All those nightsI thought of lifeand never slept, and sometimes wept,and thought of mum and dadand happy lives I never hadand I can’t help but thinkI may really be mad.It seems sad now that Ilive among the living.48ForeverI floated down the streamof time which ends in nothingand currents swept me to the sunlightpouring through every celland molecule of what I am.I ate leaves from the earthheaving with the rhythm of lifeand energy flowed through usso that I dreamt and slept as onedying particle in space.Never forget that I showed you thislife as nothing becoming death,and then the walls cave inand the fields of grassflow on forever.49Vision questsVision quests of landscapesI have never seen, nor ever will,my road-worn heart the stuff of fadedstill photographs in attic drawersand frames on dusty hallway wallsbuilt to last but never seen,my life a dream and shudderingterrified silent screamfor the sake of noise,for the sake of toilagainst myself, my hollow heartsworn enemy of the dusty purple beltof stars which span my sightwhen I gaze skyward lonely nightsand see all life unravel before my eyes,and I could dream this dream a hundredthousand times or more, and lordhow I adored the friends I made,and all those loves I had along the way,and I will live forever, or at leastanother day of madness and blinddismay as I think about cellsand windowless, sunless,godless prison hells made sterileshells for broken men,and then I think I broke myselfand then I sink into the sheetsand tremble through my awful dreamsof ending up alone and old,mad and with a manic soulwhich feasts upon itselfand I can’t tell what’s really real.50Three red lightsMy head is full of dreamsand the blue sky beckonspale pink stripes across my eyesas I peer through yesterdayinto tomorrow, past wrappedin future, three red lightsflashing warning signsabove the exit ramp of my mind.My head is full of dreamsand though I spend the day among youI walk the periphery of lifeat night, my mind expandingoutward into hazy skiesand midnight joyrides,taking every lucid pathwayand the psychedelic bywaypast experience and into spacewhere I soar by nebula edgesinto visions past my reality.I have consumedthe night,the day,infant spaces breathing deathinto infinity; blinding lightpouring from my eyesbeneath fractured eyelidsshielding daydreamborderline ghosts which are not there.Hear me in my abyssshouting prophecy ramblingsinto the unhearing, unfeeling nightstretching through the edges of the map.51Hear me runacross the expansive trails of cloudswhich populate the liquid skyand shield my eyes from hallucinationworlds below my feet,too strange to believe.52UnafraidI drift from place to place,scene to scene,as one man amongthe many faces of myself.I move from land to land,sea to sea,moment to momentin the dream of identity.I have unravelled the fabric of timelike a heavy blanket,covering my shaking shouldersthrough this dark night of the soul.I lose touchas surely as my fingers slip from yours,I lose my grasp on permanenceand the ability to hide.I am alive,true colours in full bloomas I explore the chemical landscape,the altered headspacedreamland beyond the ether.Awake at last,slowly realising my tetralogy of self,selfish in my ceaseless need forexploration.I have seenthe pyramids of Egypt burning,as the triumphs of manbecome fickle, trivial things.I have seenthe rings of Saturn divide and fall,crumbling as the stars53turn fretfully inward.I have seenfields of grass grow into forestsand the smallest tidesbecome thunderous tidal forces.I have seenspace and time holding handsin a dance which made me lustfuland lost in madness.I have seenthe endless eyes of Godand the hand of fatearound my pale throat.I have walkedupon the surface of the moonas it cracked and fell awayinto infinite space beneath me.I have heldthe centre of the earthin my handslike a tiny grain of sand.I have caressedthe tenderness of my flaws,stripped naked and exploredin all their complication.I have seenmyself without my skin;I have looked withinand made amends with darkness.I am uncovered,stripped to the coreas the image of a mantorn into fragmented pieces.54Piece me togetherin the chemical fog of discoveryI have pursued,searching in the light of this journey.I move into the unknownwith the pure eyes of a childwaking for the first time,new dawn glow slowly rising.I drift from place to place,scene to scene,as one selfamong the many selfish men I’ve been.I have dreamtimpossible dreams,seen impossible things,known impossible truths too early.I was not readyfor this long strange tripwhich laid out my heartnaked and bare,unafraid of what is out there.55TimeTime.The inseparable weightas the dates on the calendar pagefly by.I have fallen highto low, and in letting gohave found new crestswhich I have climbed to.It slips by youas few things ever do.It turns grey to blue,brown to green,and fields into frozen winter scenes.I have seen thingswhich no one else has ever seen,as though built for me,as though I am living in the wormholeout of time, out of space,out of my changing face and mind,out of the pastand everything I left behind.We move with time,as the waves of the oceanor the ripples of the lake sighslowly spreading currents outward.I doubted if I would make it very far,but there are ways in which we all moveonward.56My head is full of dreamsMy head is full of dreamsand the blue sky beckonspale pink stripes across my eyesas I peer through yesterdayinto tomorrow, past wrappedin future, three red lightsflashing warning signsabove the exit ramp of my mind.My head is full of dreamsand though I spend the day among youI walk the periphery of lifeat night, my mind expandingoutward into hazy skiesand midnight joyrides,taking every lucid pathwayand the psychedelic bywaypast experience and into spacewhere I soar by nebula edgesinto visions past my reality.I have consumedthe night,the day,infant spaces breathing deathinto infinity; blinding lightpouring from my eyesbeneath fractured eyelidsshielding daydreamborderline ghosts which are not there.Hear me in my abyssshouting prophecy ramblingsinto the unhearing, unfeeling nightstretching through the edges of the map.57Hear me runacross the expansive trails of cloudswhich populate the liquid skyand shield my eyes from hallucinationworlds below my feet,too strange to believe.58When I am tall I towerWhen I am tall I tower,but when I am small I am weakand unable to stand.High upon the edge of myself,I see that I am boldand brash andwildly conflicting.(Lost in the dreamfrom which you have awoken).When I am tallI feel as though the worldrotates only for me.InevitablyI forget how to be,and the power to feel eludesas I grow dizzy,weary through my journeysaboard this spinning rock.(The day opensalready old).I can be many menwithin this skin,projecting everything I feeluntil I’m left alone again.I only make sensewhen I write,when I speak and findthe words I wantedwithout the others.(Do you ever write about me?)59At my best,I am made of glasswhich shatters at the smallest touch,and through whichany eyes can see.I am oblique,pale and clearin the morning light.Look at me.(As the cradle of the skynurses my infant spirit).See me here,see my soul bareand naked before you.Watch the cracks appearand let me crumbleendlessly without you –always apart,forever fallingfaithless and strange,made for you to feel.(Deep, darkand as impossibly blueas the ocean’s Aryan eyessparkling in their abyss.Blue as the hydrangeasmy mother used to plantand place by the windowwhile I wroteand dreamt of flying away).60SolitudePick one ofthe men I’ve tried to be,and tell me why he’s missingfrom the other side of your bed.Alone in thisloneliness of the hunter,searching endlesslyfor the reflection of myselfin another.La nuit est froideet vieux comme éons,waking in pitch darknessto hear the echoesof my dreams.Why do I dwellon solitude?In my heartI see every man and womanI have loved,in all their pure beautyand immeasurable pain.In the purity of infatuation,why do I dwellon solitude?Live within my hearteternally, infernallylost to the abyss of time.All you men and women,loved too fast and lost too soon,who were never destined to be mine.I cannot help but fixate,comme je me cache à l'intérieur de moi,61and am destined to be forever lonesomein this desolation of romance.Every person I have lovedlives far beyond this door.I am exiled within this paradox,long past the time in which they loved me,a different man than they had known.Why do I dwellon solitudewhen I don’t want to be alone?62Obscured by the glassObscured by the glass,an image of my futuredrawn out of my past,as my present growsslowly stranger.I remember the sun glowas it set over the beachby which our home rose,those long years I dreamtand planned on leaving.I remember the hyacinth scentwhich wafted through the yardthose sleepy summers spent wasting time,my unfulfilled young heart lustful.I remember the smellof the Australian night,dusky blue and serene as it fellover the country I called homea lifetime ago.Yes, I have changedinto a version of myselfbroken apart and rearrangedso that I resemblethe man I wanted to be.Obscured by self-worth,I want the true designof the man my mother birthedthat moonlit nightso long past it seems an aeon.63I have moved beyondthe sand, the sun and the stars;I am forever gone,lost with winds which blowfar and wide,deep and loud,and much too fastfor me to ever catch them.I still hear the soundof the raindrops as they fell on the groundand the flowers plantedby the window of my boyhood room.I still feel the sadnessof the nights I spent watchingthe water drawing portraits on the glass,only for me, and my eyeswhich stared so sadlyout of my incubator celland into the vastness of the world around me.Here I am,awakening anewas a stranger in strange landsfar beyond that glass,my past a hidden vaultof light and sound which I no longer see.I left that room,those sandy beaches,those half-forgotten dreamsof what might come to be.Day by dayI swim as fast as I can,chasing the horizon while it lingersway out above the ancient sea.64I changeI change.As surely as the memory fades,second by second,day by dayI change.Like a picture in a frame,torn and frayed,decaying with ageand hidden away.Like a bird housed in a cageor a mouse lost in a maze,moment by moment I adaptand change.Like a dream you kept contained –surreal and strange,which you can’t quite explain –I change.Like a rolling wavearriving at the shore,every moment differentthan the one which came before.Like a half-remembered dreamI half-remember the people I’ve been,the faces, places, and lovers I’ve seen,hearts I have knownand the yearsin which I have grown and altered.Despite what I have wantedI never ceaseto change,in every wayand through every stageand circle of the descent.65I change,and in place of the pastI rearrange and mediatethe message of myself.I change as you draw breathand wake up every morningolder, wiser,stranger,in the ill-advised tormentof the traveller.I am the shifter,the drifter,the strange poem writer,renegade spirit loverwithout a home.I am the changeling,mad, caged, free-spirit thinglet loose on windswhich blow across oceans deepand blue as the span of my soul.66ClawingClawing tendril armsfrom desert sands spillingblood red diamonds,blue prismatic lightpale glow fluorescentdream eyes with no reality.Fire red, I see nightfall,shifting sand and neonradiation death and slow decay,atomic clouds and ash greycrowds of people crowding in,buildings crumbling like tin cans crushednow that we’re older.Worms, dirt, the mother beestung queen devoured freely,mutiny of self and rainfalltastes like acid and I seepurple sidewalks waking upwith silver sheen and I feelvibrant green shadestinting eye patternsand shapes beyond my sight.Islands in the seaand castles made of sand which fallinto shifting tides made brilliantby reflected light like littlestars or perhaps time is simple,standing still and lilting waterswhile the sky dips down to violentcolours like it’s always bound to do.Strobe lights and blindingimages of cinder blockbuildings with heavy doorsI enter through.67My ignis fatuus heartconquers the darkstrong arms of nightpulling inward,the stars are purple shiningbrilliant light on meand now you seewhy I’m alone,dead of night poem writerand still you sleep.Sleep well and longand hear no secret songI sing to the black nightwhile others rest their minds.Tomorrow we will meetand then of courseyou will be mine.68A blind desert skullA blind desert skullwith eyes gouged out by dustas I peer into the face of deathleering above my bed,in visions that infect meas moments pass and I grow less.I see towers fall,crumbling into ash like nothing else,as the shadows fadeto a pale grey malaisethat drags my neck downwardand pulls me to my knees.I see myselfgrown strange, lone stranger,lost amidst the dreams and dismayof the youthful fool’s first mistake,bound by fate to losethis game I never learnt to play.I see the moon leave,her journey calling onward,as I scream and reachbut cannot find the strength to touchthe heights of heavenwhich must surely lie before her.I see your eyesin the darkest dreams I ever dream,their emerald green huethe shade of my next nightmare.I see the tearsyou shed for me so many nights over.69I see us in our embracewhich felt like forever,forever ago when we were loversand the hand of fatehad not yet struck,though it was hovering above us.I see you diethe slow death of a drowning womantoo unwise to knowshe should fear the depth of water,and I see the light of your eyesextinguished by the veil of time.I see sadness everywhere I goand I feel my happiness floatout there into the distance,far away from meand my hands which clasp at nothingwithout someone else to save.I see people passing byliving lives I’ll never understand,as they see a simple manwith simple cares and secrets,his face a mask he keeps upso that they won’t be afraid.I see our futuregrown heavy in the distant haze,as a tortured woman waitsfor a broken manwho runs and repentsfor all his cruel mistakes.I see loveand everything I am afraid of70follows next,as the gruesome hand of deathfastens its terrible griptight around my neck.I see every dream I’ve ever hadbecome an outline of itself,white chalk on the tarmacof my mind and my ambitious soulwhich was always destinedto collapse like it was never whole.I see the skyline of a cityI never thought I’d see,and I feel demons at restdeep within the heart of me,myself and I, these eyesand the tears they cannot help but cry.Goodbye.71My eyes change shadeMy eyes change shadefrom blue to green to greyand I wonderif I’m changing too,never knowinghow the shades of my soulspread their lightwithin my skin.My eyes change shadeand sometimes I dreamthat inside I’m never the same;that day by dayI wake and rearrangethe form of myself.My eyes change shadeand in the colours they becomeI see the world through different lenses;I am defenselessagainst the might of time to move me,pull me as it will into tomorrow.My eyes change shadeand nothing stays the same,yet I still wonderif your world looks like mine,or if everything is strange.My eyes change shadeand there’s no tellingwhat tomorrow’s hue will be.Sometimes I can't help but wonderwhat you seewhen you look at me.72Every dayEvery day I see the rain pass –ash grey steel, cold glassand the train speeds onward –homeward, wherever’s next;I pass the time by feeling less and less.The stress constricts my chest;I think I’ll just smoke and do my bestto find the time,the rhyme, the syllableto express myself.I undress myself with everything I say,every note I play,and day by dayI feel naked and exposed.I’m in the throesbut there’s a way out, I know.I haven’t found it yet,but it’ll come any day now.Just keep the faith somehow.73Naked in the darkNaked in the dark,the patterns of my minddisplace these fragmented musings of mine,and I feel space unveillike black star distillationsof pure truth, and I feel you echoingfrom tooth to toothas I try to explainhow I have gone elsewhere,to a place you cannot visitin the ordinary light of life,but must arrive by substantive seasmade of blue and green jazz trumpeterlove supreme rambler, gospelpoet, spirit lover doctrinedelivered to us in the amberlight of dawn,and I have torn myself in twotrying to push myself out to seawith only chemical waves by which to drift,wilful abandon roads to walk,and you know me; some of it’s talkor verse, but most of it hurts,swiftly worsensand quickly leads to glossy black hearsesrolling down the avenuesthey warned you of in school –birth of the cool.74People are strangePeoplearestrange.I don’t knowhow Ican learnto liveamongthem.Among menamong women.Among the childrenof god and oppression,forgotten alien lifeformsborn strange within a brilliant truth.I don’t have any use for thisbizarre juxtapositionof love and deathor hateful mess,lies, and crueltendernesswhich Ireject.I amthe manwho falls apart.Heart by heart,I am the man who cannever cease to look uponthe world in which I find myselfwith constant disbelief and apprehension.75The dying skyThe dying sky is lit conceptually,vague dreams and memories of yesterdayturned strange realitiesand fractured sentencesspoken into the night.I breathe light into the vacant airand feel the ghosts of lovers and loved onesand forgotten mothers and fathersand brothers.I had no sisters.I had no reason to lie here and write this poemthinking of home.76I dreamtI dreamtof a child born to light,blinking in the haloof a blissful glowing dreamby the sea.I dreamtof days spent with love,and laughter in the ageless raceof innocence and youth.I dreamtof towers crumbling into dustas the purity of a childbecame a dark beliefin the atrocity of man.I dreamtof isolation,loneliness in the shadowof a child’s heartfacing demons.I dreamtof darknessand the proliferation of fearas it swept across a small boy’s soul.I dreamtof brief happiness,fleeting pleasuresin the dawn of youthfulnaïveté.I dreamtof drugs,flames, sirens,tears, and the allureof death.I dreamtof illness77taking over the body,crushing the mind,blocking out the world.I dreamtof passive yearsspent in commiserationand convalescence,ageing into the ether.I dreamtof nothingness,blank space slowlyconsuming all memories of joy.I dreamtof strength slowly returning,building in the bodyand rising in the mindof a newly woken man.I dreamtof courageand the will to riskwith the brillianceof an awoken soul.I dreamtof laughter, light, sex, tears,friends, music, lust, love,drugs, drink, travel,and possibility.I dreamtof the promise of tomorrowand the happiness of knowingnot every challenge is doomedto fail.I dreamtof a morningwhen I woke to findthe tears of yesterdayhad dried.78I have held youI have held you,I have given you my souland you have whisperedwords that made me shiverwith the thought that we could besomething worthy of forever.I don’t know how I fall in loveso inevitably, easily soon,but I saw you clear as summer rainbefore the clouds came,your misty eyes turned whiteand unreadable during the day,only at night when youturned yourself awayonto your side.Remember feeling likewe may just fall in love?Remember how it feltlike we had given upor had given too much,the fire of lust now dimand burning to the ember?Do you remember?I have held you,I have felt you cold throughout the nightand made you warm.You said you had never felt saferthan you did between my arms,in the gloom where demons lurkbehind the curtains of the darkand I gave you my heartand you trusted me to hold you,and I felt like you were whole79and our two souls were one and all.You were a riddleand I thought that I had solved you,but I ran into a wallwhich I can’t climb.You once were mine.80The dead of nightThe dead of night.My breath is slow, my chestrising naked in the half-lightof a full moon, snow-filledsky beyond the glass.I feel the will of sleeppulling me downbut I defend myselfagainst the chillcall echoes in my soul.My tired limbsare heavy burdens as I sinkinto the sheets and foldsof tattered dreams I dreamt up yesterdayand soon absorbed,assimilating life into rebirthand I, Anubis of the dayspilling outward.Don’t let me liehere too long.I have dreamtof days beyond these falteringsteps in wrong directions,and I thought I had learnt my lessons.I liein dreamy vacant air,vague guesses as timeticks slowly awayand the latent image of my facepeels slowly from your memoryuntil I am erased.I cannot sleep untilthe chase is overand I hold what I wanted.Your eyes, I am still haunted.81Mystery girlWhose eyes are thesethat haunt my dreamsso tenderly, so softlyfixed steadily on mine?Who is this womanin my mind, my third eyecentre with all these shadesand symbols in her gazeso that I cannot turn away?Of whom have I been dreamingwhen I lay upon my sideand try to picture nothing?Why can I never see her irisin the day, but only whenI lay myself upon the bed in silenceand wake up with her face inside my head,so deadly, so unavoidably,seductively assured that I will love her?She turns to meand I can’t see anything but this,the colours and the complexhints of wickednessand want within her look,and I am shaken to the coreforevermore, until I abhor herwho makes me wake in pitch black airwhile she who shook mehovers above me sleeping thereand turns my thoughts to love,so that I cannot help but callher name into unhearing night.She never hears it in time.Mystery girl, you are not mine;where do you linger in the light?82Runaway girlRunaway girl, lostin my heart like winterfreeze on tilting leavesas it blows into the eveningclosing shades of nightturning blue against the finitefalling sky I see and striveto touch or become one with.I fall in love withstars and the dying burstof colour into which they disappearand light up nights as dark asthis, or how you made mefeel when I was so lonesomeI could have dieda hundred times or moreon the altar of your lipswhen beyond every kiss,an offering.Rise, riseout of the fitful sleep of a temptresslover lost in wilful tearsshed for undeserving men,your beauty lost on themlike light beams beyond the crest of the seaturning blue-green when the sun setsand for one moment peeksbehind the water’s edge,a coloured flash and then the glow is deadwhen Earth has gone a little darker,my sweet abider, lovestruck angelof the cosmic decay I face when aeonsclash behind my eyes,83ignite the colours I hide fromwhen I lie and say that I don’t want youto read my mind.Hide from love,runaway charlatan lostin sudden excesses of lust,a mad rush outward blowinggusts that propel me to youno matter what I try to findand seek within the starsthat shine upon me,no denying you will delight meno matter where I hideand lie down amongst the ocean sandsand shifting coastal cloud banksblowing crescent shapes across the islandson the archipelago of myself,made for sailing to andfar away from, arm in armwith your one and only lover,never another person to be seenas I look back into the sunand not a day goes by when I don’twonder if you are just another dream.84What ifWhat if my heart expandsuntil it takes me over,my mind a slave to love’s design,free falling into blind romanceswith the world around me,the sun, the moon, and the starswhich shine upon the soulmatesI see in those I findand in your eyes which fixateso tenderly on minewhen the gentle day is young and endless.What if my heart expandsand I am drowned by loveas I have been when I wake at night,shaken from thoughts of you yet I still wonderif my hopeless heart can stand to breakonce again, when I heave a foolish sigh and saylove could ever be so simpleas a feeling I am overwhelmed byor the way my hands shake,heart rate ascendingwhen I’m with you,on the days I feel completeand the ripples of time cease their spreading.Love can beblue as the oceans of my eyesbrimming with tender tearson the 9,000 days I’ve been alone,my fear of isolation growing vicious,far from home on a tidal waveof wishes made to be answered,85pleading whispers in the darkwhile traced by fingertips on wrinkled sheetswhen I’ve begged the silencefor the happiness of a hand to hold,my faith in answers growing oldas I look for love and never find it.Yet still I remind myselfof blind trust by believingsome love must be deeper than the heaving seas,deeper than I’ve ever dreamt,down to the depths I saw when my parents weptand held each other at mygrandparent’s funerals;the kind of love in books and films,in the stories I was readfilled with fairytale thrills,and TV reels made for tissue maker’s payrolls,the kind of love we base our romantic ways on,two blue souls singing a secret song;the kind of Casablanca romanceI’ve wanted for so long:picturesque kisses in the rain,the kind of lovestruck linkwhich feels eternal,meant to be, pre-ordained,hopeless, hopeful,brilliant supernova burning brightlyfor the lengths of our lives and beyond,tied together by indivisible bondswe cannot breach and never try;perfect unison octavic notes whichring and ring, and sing and singsweet lilting lullaby things,like the small birds dowhen I hear them in the morningas I wake from dreams of you.86My oasisMy oasis,your dusky light on my waywardwandering dreams.Made of forged, pale, luminous fire,I come to youout of the soft light of other worlds,across other plains,through other women’s heartsso full of dreams and desolation,their wasted mouthsgaping in the fog of my lost past.You open to me, your heartan unblemished white rosewhich radiates the essence of you,a night light in the dark corners of my mind,absent thoughts of usand your beautiful facedrifting through the surreal, absurdisttapestries of my twilit thoughts.And I feel you there,out in the infinite airI breathe, and sigh.And because I know that you are somewhereI smile sweetly, sadly; bittersweetlybecause you are not here.And I miss youas the dark side of the moon misses the lightor as parched riverbeds miss the river’s ebb,or as burnt and barren trees miss thesongbirds and their nestschirping early into the rising sun,now gone, now forgottenalongside all of those treeswhich had once held them.87With all of those boughs which bent to them,kissed them,gave them life.YetIhaveneverheldyou.Still I miss you like that.Like I have known you my whole life,like you remind me of a love I left behind,like I am a burnt and barren branch in whosearms you once nested,who held you againstthe cruelest winter storms,held you until I burnt apartand crumbled into ashand the crashand the broken nestso that only you are leftand you fly awayinto the infinite, omnipotent,tainted beauty of the sightless sky.88AgainI am pink and bluewith the echoes of you,rattling around my soullike the electricity of lightthrough my cocaine brain,left dazed and alienatedby the subliminal shardsof hope which you can give mewhen the world seems less darkand you descend upon my eyeslike the hand of god or fatelifting me skyward, homeward,star-bound and star-crossedlover in the night borne freneticinto the unearthing lightwe save for simple stars, prettydistractions from the celestial void,and all this time the dark currentsof life and matter crystallisedand my soul died when you left meand my heart has never felt more emptyand devoid of any loveand broken by the violenttemperament you havewhen you look into my eyesand see that my weakness is you,and you abuse meand I confuse youfor someone I will end up with,and somewhere along the waysomething slipped and nowI’m lifted in my bed,alone at nightagain.89The sorrow of my lifeMy heart is open wideas infinite chasms between love and lossor the black hole of your eyes,so infinitely absorbing to my foolish heartbeside my vain and lovestruck pride.I want a woman to love meas the night wants rain to fallso that when the sun wakes upthe leaves of grass which coat the groundhold up little dewdropsand we can see their quiet beautyas we move around.I want a woman to love meas the neglected goldfishyou prop up in the cornerwants food and clean water,and wants and wantsuntil it floats up to the surfaceand no ones knows quite what went wrong.Or how orphan, forgotten heartlonely men have walked into the nightwithout love to keep them warm,and the rain, and the snow,and the ice, and the deep thaw,and the sorrow of mylife.90TurquoiseTurquoise.I saw turquoise lightover my eyesthe night I nearlydied.I saw turquoise lightover my eyesso many timesin dreams, those tears,the life I nearly lost.The cost of my disguise.I called you from the ward,my hands shaking by the cordas I hunched into the cornerof the little boothwith scratched-in names and violent cursespatterned in the wood.The greasy black handleand I hyperventilated.So small.I used the wordsso uselessly,ineffectively small.What did they do?I couldn’t read you.I could never read youin the end.I triedand pretended that I did.But you were hiddenand you wouldn’t let me in.91Your skinnot mine to stroke.Your handnot mine to hold.The secretsyou would never have shown me.I heard your voice over the phone.I had never felt more alone.92FragileFragile.My glassheart,my radiohead.I was almostdead.I remember everythingfast, then glacial slowbut nothing else.I don’t remembercalling for help.Fragile.Made of glass,my heart.I am thin,pale, clearas opalescent lightthrough mullioned windows.I break.I have broken.Small and feebleand desperate and aloneand wanting onlyto believe that I am loved.My feeble flesh is not enough.93Fragile.I break apartlike paper-thin glassblown into abstract statueshapes you take the axe to.I couldn’t feel you sleepinganymore.I couldn’t feel you closethose eyes which lingered longon mine.With timeI broke in two.And into a thousand shardsof dismal shattered glassas I am destined to.I missed you.94The kisses that never wereThe kisses that never wereover her bare skin,her eyes deep within my own,her soul with wicked whisper,the black holeof my addict’s embrace,sick and yet I lingerin the disintegrating silenceof my haunted heartwhich tears apart and settles in disgrace.The kisses that never weregiven to her,now mine forever.Down in the depth of myselfand in the separating sidesof dualistic mind statesand the mental healthtightrope timeline of fate,kaleidoscope never-ending moonbeam,meandering daydream getaway headspaceI navigate.The kisses that never wereon lightly closed lids,on secrets given and receivedand taken in, hiddenso that I breathe them,so that I make them my own,so that I, lonesome voyager,lonely traveller, alone methadone amateur,heave sighs into the infant nightwhere it was silent; embryonic saboteur,debonair Byronic hero sighingthe slowly dying spell of her,95and in the broken silenceof my hateful heartacheI find escape.Within my unravelling mind,this unkind unraveller,the bond that bends and tiesmy heart beyond a blur;its violence,the nihilist leviathan lakes,the oracular spectacular sunshine state,and the violent force by which it unwinds,panics andbreaks.96I have been so closeI have been so closeas to touch the face of death.My mother and father weptover the phone.I leaptand fell through abstract portholes.The hospital bedshad heavy sheets.Demon rising razor teeththrough the centre of myself.They asked meif I had wanted to die.Flying darkness,escapist phantom mind.I can’t rememberthe IV tubes in the first hospital.Depth of this oceanwayward blind free-dive.I don’t even rememberanything after the coke.Grief-laden vapour trailsthrough smeared cold windows.What did Iwant?Imaginary bottomless tombcloset bones in haunted homes.There I satas the woman on the phone picked at her arms.97Digital, barren, temporal, sterileworld of twisted labyrinth paths.Who are you therereflected in the asylum floor?Harsh fluorescent Orwellian lighton fragile arms in sunken sockets.The worst of the regularswere no longer shockedof the demons in their dead bone sightthey saw but didn’t jump anymore.Flying angelic vanilla skymoments of truth.They asked me whyI said I’d choose to jump from a roof.Earthen, ancient, valley cradle mountain topand lakes of reflected bloodline light.I had tears in my eyesas he looked in mine and I swore on every bond.So close, the distanceso nearly crossed behind.My life was savedby every friend who moved to the roomwhen they knew I nearly died.Loving, kind, different eyes, different huesand the laughter I have heard.It was absurd to thinkI had nothing to lose.98Alexander WonderlandI leapt through the portal of myselfand touched death, and met his eyestoo awful to describe.I drifted off into the spaceyou see before you diebut when I woke I was aliveand changed forever.Hospital gowns, and I have crawledinto the rabbit holewith wounded, tired hands.Alexander Wonderland.I jumped the cliff over the seaand it swallowed me, my misery,my LSD discoveriesand the lessons I ignored.There is nothing left to explore;I have hit the ceiling, fallen to the floor,and I swam deep under the waterbefore crawling onto shore;the tangible touch of dampened sand.Alexander Wonderland.I pushed through the black hole hidden thereand was peeled bare, my essenceand my dwindling grasp onall the blessings I’ve received.I felt the expanse of timeswallowing me,stretched out; the blood I bleedpouring infinities out of the mouthof space’s darkest cell.My soul, in suspended fallsthrough a gate of pitch black starsfar beyond the world of man.Alexander Wonderland.99I have lived, lost, loved, and given allI had to make it through;I have abused and been abused,found truths in hidden placesand seen the face of the ultimate light,the unforgettable eyes of oblivion,and a path which leads mehigh and out of pain.I have been ashamed to falland proud that despite allI stand. Because I can.Because I have seen the darknesswhich I am better than.Alexander Wonderland.100I love the lightI love the lightso much I feel like I explode insidewhen I am happy, and when the coloursof my mind make pastel lullabymelodies shuddering like heat hazewafting over desert plains,my cool blue dream oasis lingering,and you are my Isis of the dusky nightdescending purple midnight shadeson closing eyes and trembling handscovering skin.I let you withinand now I live without you.I love the lightas I love the new day’s glarecoming over treetops,fanning electric shades of peacockblue and green, red, white,vibrant lights that wake my mind up,and I am tired but the day is young,just begun and I am blessedto be alive.Still I strive for something moreand I adored you.I love the lightand I have been happy as the sunbreaking the night, shatteringblack shadows with brightrays crafting life and colour,and I sang lullabies to youand broke in two when you forgot me.I looked but you never knewthat you had lost me.101DesertedI move through changes,lone silhouette lost in the skylinehaze and departure of yesterdayas opalescent grey as the ash trayfull of spent cigarettesupon the glistening silver glow.I exhale vortex curlsand feel my panic gointo the air, beyond there,that glass so seeminglyclear as the presentor really murky as the past,and I blew trees into the alleyway breezeyet barely had a dream last night.I often fight the urge to liedown in the sheets with my demons,my hidden heart, disbelieving self,my painful, ecstatic urgeto move far into the hurtful lightof an illuminated ego deathdissociative midnight soul.That K-hole nightmaredarkness down there,so romantic to me,my self-destructive inner peacedisturbed.The silent roomdeserted.102MissingThe grim mask of this reaper,my pale flesh caressed by the whispering windand the dead secrets shelteredin a barren voicehidden in the space between her.My skin alive with vague threat,omnipresent nastinessand bitter fear with every breath.I am the emptiness of Earthin its regret,this devout and utterly devoidfollower of fatalisticpleasures of the flesh.The sunless sky has lost this ployfor subtle madness in the mask of joywell kept, well secreted-awayin the forbidden holeI hid in.I slid into the hollow betweendreams, day, death,and infinite space.These micro-expressions of my faceare no mistake.I shrink away.This is not permanent,it is only by design.It is only by the mechanicaldictatorship wiringand the silent sirens blaring boy band jinglecartoon violence in your ears.Only by the way I do not feellike I belong here.103Earth.I wish I hadn’t seen you firstbut I know you won’t be mylast.Perhaps I clung to ground too soon,too fast to fit and sit with the past,an intergalactic space shipfifth dan fightersix shooter paraglidinglightning storm trooper.The pastbears nothing on my future.104LovelornOut of the corner of the rooman epiphany, a silent truthsplitting the infinity of myself.Out of the shadows of my sleepthe apartment sighsand the floorboards speaktheir creaky soliloquy readingthis dramatic monologuelovelorn love song.It won’t be long beforeI am gone again.The whitewashed walls,the refrigerator buzzing by the sideas I dissolve inside the cocoonshell, this infant lightmortal hell;all hope abandon,while I fallinto temporal holesbored by my failings.No self-control,no release.No peace.No hesitancyas I climb ivory towersand plunge a hundred floorsor more, like May showersbirthing the April flowerswith which you adorn your hair.I can taste the airand I can fall and fall and falland falland fall105and falland fall into my darknessas though there’s nothing there.The dirty windowwhispers.106The forgettingCut me downuntil only the cocaine remains,and the remains of the daydie slowly within my withdrawn heart.The artist,the art,the starvation modefast I slowly disintegrate throughuntil I am flesh,until I am one with you.My lysergic life,my changing eyesno shade or design but mine.The sunlight tries,but in my cocoonI blossom like the death’s-headmoth and it cannot find me.Let me falland I will drop every dose I find.Let me lie in silenceuntil I stop this back and forthdiatribe within my mind.Me, myself, and I,and who of these decidedthat I would destroy myself?I starve in this half-lit room,this comfortable tomb,this womb of my designfor rebirth, and I unearthevery demon I have known.I grow thinner,weaker,107stranger.I take my angerand turn it on myself.I think abouteverything that I have doneas I have lived, and loved,and died a thousand deaths;the phoenix I’ve become.These drugs, this mind,this abstract, impressionistic life,the Van Gogh skies of my lucid dreams,the pain and the forgetting.108Smoke risesMy liver, my lungs have had enough.Enough of these pills, powders,pieces of my mind made acid showersand ecstatic circles movinground beneath my lids,the caplets, capsules, and frenzied scramblesthrough the draw for something smallto mainline into a mind made spectral,this spectrum span of things I have been toldto think, feel, do, without truththere is no way to overcome.Alcohol ambiance in the room at night,cigarette ashes piling by the tremulant hand,pencil scratch and crumpled paper piles,my liver, my lungs, enough for me to sayI can drift into the night sometimesa new man, a frail friend to myself,stormy weather doubt as I persevere.The mouth, the eyes widen,the lights turn into spiral patterns,the sky becomes a canvas filled withwatercolour shadesof blue and whatever all this meansit hasn’t hit me, maybe partly,maybe lesson learned, maybea road to tread I haven’t found yet.The omnipresent threat,omnipotent hand of death around me,the caress so gentle,so resoundingly assuringthat reality is only half the scene,109and you can flip that coinso easily it is a maddening temptationto reject the days which pass me by just howthey are.I am not of this life,I do not use these eyesto witness the same things you do,the world does not compel meas it compels those who surround meand the happiness of the real has become barelyattainableagainst the weight of heavy flesh.Smoke risesout of this small unsteady fire,lifted as the light I am revealed by.I wonder if you have seenthe death within my eyesthe countless moments, constant timeit spends there, and it is realenough for you to witness turning greythen black,then nothing after that.110These daysThese daysthe snow looks like cocaineand the sunlight looks like mushroomclouds over my sight,vapour trails bleeding left to rightacross the psychedelic sky.These daysthe rain tastes like bad acidrunning down my backand bursting through my brain,halcyon journeys twistingthrough the electric light of ecstasy.These daysthe smoke rings come in loopsencircling the joyless evening air,as I force my heart to restand capsule currents wash awaythis fervid slave without a master.The riverbeds are parched,those days of wine and roses wiltedand neatly put into the past,as I reminisce about the times I hit the markor missed it, or swam until I nearlydrowned and slipped aside;all the dim way downinside this hellish hole I had to hide in.111DisintegrationDisintegration.As the coffee cups grow stained in the sink,as the floor gathers dust and detritus,as the ceiling fan shudders and gives upalongside I, alongside the familiarwaking life I wake and sleepand dread by every day.Disintegration.As the lightbulb gives up the ghost,as the dishes pile high like a mass grave,as the arms, the legs, the headlose their energyand I collapse in this cacophonyof silence.Disintegration.As the days blur by,the second hand barks loudlyfrom the peeling wall, my breaking soulbreaks down, the sheets are scrambledand you can find me in the heavy,sleepy, poisoned air that permeates this dayand the malicious timeline of my life.It passes me,I disintegrate,eternitywaitingalwayswaitingI won’tmake it.112DogmaDay decreases to daydogmatically, this dry pace crawlinglike a slouching beast across the plain.Why does my heart suspend itself in solitudeamid a cloud of self-deceit?I am deceivedand shackled to the pillars of my past.I feel hollowlike a crystal vase in thin airjust above the ground,moments from impactwithout movement,without consciousness.113Always waitingAs expansive as the amber expanse of cloudwhich sinks before me now,your eyes and the reflection of myselfhaunting day dreamsand dazed falls through ideational portholesinto lustful, loveless realitiesin which I shudder.My horizon eyes slowly fadeinto an unfocused gaze upon the dying sunmirroring my soul as it sinks to hibernation,always waitingalwayswaiting.114DiazepamA diazepam pentagramdrawn out of the lightning in the air,as the drunken men throw bottlesand senseless shouts down there,the alleyway below my heaving breathgasping out this window.I feel the night in its embraceclutching through this shrouded darkness,and the sense of time as it is erasedshows me nothing in the vacant flashes.This city scenebleeds water like feeble riversburst through scorched ravines.I sleep in the mellow glowing lightin which I cocoon my mortal frame,my eyes awake and perceivingthe vivid shapes on dim displaythrough this vastness,through this permanenceof both the future and the pastat last.What is this strangenessthat follows me from place to place,this weird closenessto the echoes of immoral, immortal,disemboweleddisgrace?I re-arrangeand take what I can findin darkness.Everything changesregardless.115Dear lifeI keep on slipping on the same rope as everas I fall down the same holes,my hands tired, aching from the dayI grasp, hold, hope against hopeI learn from, heal in,do not descend withinto darkness.The kettle purrs from across the roomand I look to find myself alone.Once more the silence of the apartment,once more the void of the hallway,once more the echoes of manfrom behind the sealed, closed glass.The third button undone,the sleeves haphazardly rolled,the eyes black and grey;an inverted bas-relief of my facedrawn exhausted by the broken lightin which the computer screen bathes mewhile the day grows darkerand disappears as I decline here.Strength, weakness, strength,weakness.I mitigate my mindin rows of numbing,nebulous white.My eyes shine,dim,recede into their socketsand close, another dayfor living, another dayto fight, survive,cling todear life.116DancesDances through the smoke curlswhile the basement lights are dim,you my everything in present tensenow passed.At last I think I learnt my lessons.And the raindrops glisten like shatteredglasson the sidewalks we meander,the city twilight we enter with loud voicesand the fire of our faithless hearts.Cigarette ash scattered underfootwhile we gather aimlesslyin pointless corners made of cinder block.We linger a little longer in the darkbefore the crowds come,before my heart crumblesagain and I head home too early.Rays permeate the Western airwhile we move in the suspensionof youth to care, of adulthoodlingering there beyond us.Not to know this time, ingrainedhazy memories shared without a word.The coast unfurls my soul.Snow drifts down the alleyway stone,faces muffled for the arctic freeze,grey fumes lifted by our eyelidsand the fire-lit brick walls shimmer.Footprints on the melting icewhile we huddle as though there’s nothingbeyond this tundra,this barren land we wander.117Forgetting, sarcastic sublettingof my consciousness for daysI spent on end, on everythingI should have known to run from.Distant mistakes I never meant to seecoming from me.City street, blind light,Snow White.Mad rush, mad days,hazy hospital getaways.Here, stand where we can see.Heal upon commandand tell me that the smoke curlsopen into the air and fade,those days neatly packed awaynow that you have learnt your lesson.Do not tell me that you lessen.Do not rely upon a hand to hold youwhile you turn crystal under pressureand still the shattering is some surprise.I cannot battle without hope.I cannot hang with a ropewhich I refuse to tie.These days slip bythough still I grinand ask how you have beenas though I have not seen myselfexploding.118StillStill rolling in the bathroom mirror,still writhing on the floor beside reality,still sitting in dark rooms with dark thoughtsand Bic lightersthrowing shadows on the tiled walls.Still rereading fault linesin the construct of myself,still the cut up straws in the cutlery drawer,still the scattered white powder,still the hospital wards and thin plastic gownsgently rippling in the cold evening airthrough a barred window who knows whohas looked through.Still the weightlessnessas I fall onto the couch unconscious,still the tubes of glassopaque with thick grey smoke,still the vomit, still the dazed stumbling,still the hash burning, the ash smouldering,the plastic bag deflating as my brain fogs.Still the piece of carddissolving on my tongue,still the bitter, dirty taste of mushroomslingering in my mouthbehind the cheap prosecco.Still the half-broken tabletsand the sight of myselfnervously clicking my jaw in the mirror,licking the benchtop,scratching the bottoms of heavy jarscovered in rolls of tape and nicknamesscratched in Sharpie ink.119Still the butane.Still the codeine.Still the cocaine.Still the MDMA.Still the clonazepam.Still the diazepam.Still the temazepam.Still the alprazolam.Still the zolpidem.Still the psilocybin.Still the salvia.Still the LSD.Still the healing.Still the relapse.Still the visionsstill the thoughtsstill the silence I breakstill wandering.120I fallPrivate life.These private eyes;this private soul of mineyou do not see.The dead of nightpoetry, the Xanax dustand whiskey shots poured over me.The suffering.The way I walkinto a crowdand wear a maskand shout the loudest,brightest,happiest I can.You demand it.Yet when you leaveand I have only memoriesand fantasiesand alternate realitiesto explore,I fall.Then I run my hands throughcutlery drawers.The man in the lightwho smiles widely.The black, pungent,Kristallnacht smokewhich covers his soul.This purge,this absurd unearthing121of the hidden side,the tiny little hintof which is buried in his eyes.I pull the blindsduring the day.Sunlight cascadesand stops before it entersand before I turn away.A single tear.You’ll never see mein here.122DefenestrationI glance out of the glassat a treeless jungle,leafless haven for the lost,the abused, the down-and-outersof the lunatic fringe.There is a way the air grows heavywhile the night creeps on,and I linger by the half-lightsunset I forget;this vain forgetting,the struggle and the fightand the moving on.The streets are heavywith the memories of menand the vague delusionsflocking to surround them.The sun swings lowin her seat, seeming to breathethrough the rays of lightshe emanates.I watch the mouths movelike grotesque openingsin the faces of the damned;I see fleeting eyes make fleeting summariesof me, and the occasional obscenity thrown.I am tired of the way the light faltersand withdraws, and our lives grow dim.No light from within.And yet the air is stilland in the morningI will waketo begin again.123I had to force myself to lift this penand write this poem;loveless, passionless writerwhose spark has left himfor the moment, aloneand I am slowly coming to seethe mixed-state, shallow-breathinglithium daze they leave me in.They leave me littleto believe in.124My madnessMy madness comes in waves,reaching for the Xanax or the Stilnoxsling I slip my neck in.Falling into the undertowriptide out to sea.This depraved insanity.How else can Idestroy myself?As I look out into the heavy airand breathe tangents of twisted flameand ash, and it fallsand I wonder what the feeling iswhen movement stopsand you are restingon the concrete pillow pavementwhich I was kept from,which I have dreamt of,which I have seenwakingas though a premonition,this Jacob’s ladder leadingskyward, downward;an invisible height I have clambered high toand the divine truthsrevealed on the way down.What sound?I wake to the rhythmic tickof the cheap quartz clock I taped to the wall.Time does not absolve me.125HungerHow you look into my eyesis not of hunger, is not of thirst,is not of want or affirmation.Is not of greed, is not of lust,is not of need or trustor anticipation.Is not of power, is not of control,is not of capitulation, protestation,pleasure, joy, or sadness.Is not of sanity or madness.Is not of Earth or sun or stars,is not of Venus or of Mars.Is not of this moment,is not of future or of past.Is not of encouragement,judgment, statement,or disdain.Is not of your life,or mine, or humankind.Is not of pain or of design.It is the look of the tigressto her unsuspecting preyout across the plainsshe traverses in her hunger.Itquicklypullsmeunder.126InvestedThe apex of your legswhere I am lost,which is my wilderness.That contour of your skintrembling underneath my hands.Your whispered demands.The rhythm of your breath,your breasts,your tendernessas you acquiesceto my kissestracing up your thigh.You and I.No infant light of dawn,the shutters drawn,the light bulbs dimas we are writhingwith our bodiesand our sinsintertwined.Parched,I lay prostrate before you.How I adore you.I lift you,fold you,kiss you.I have told youwhat I become when drapes are closedand you remove your clothes before me.This is the dancewe dance til morning.I will be yawning through the dayall of tomorrow.127You are my light,my sorrow when we part,and I will carry youout of the turbulence of my heartonto my bed,and you’ll be gladthat you are there instead.It is better when I am not invested.Crawl to my embraceand I will satisfy you.Your eyes say I am bound to.128MineThe skin which lines your inner thighis mine for this night, dim in lightof lust while I devour every inch of youuntil it is mine, until other menhave no claim and will not findthe crevices of you I’ve climbed in.Your body is my body,your pleasure is mine,your lips part into a smileI quickly cover, I quickly smotheryou myself, and until I tell you to stopyou will not.You are as lost in this as Iand soon we will alignin unison, in perfect visionsmankind has dreamt for traceable time.I take you like Odysseus conquered Troyand took the kingdom,and you my Helen,and you my gyrating,pulsating, sweating,swearing, heaving,ferocious, quickly moving loverfor tonight, for the morningcomes and you are spent,and you have cometo and fro, my windowis open, and now you hear the songbirdssinging as though you didn’t just escapeand fly to places others only dream of.We dress and say goodbye.Other men will give you their loveas you think of mine.129My demandsYour lips upon my skinemit the brilliant radianceand the perfect cadenceof your awestruck eyesas they flicker shut and open,your clothes halfway slippeddown the length of your torsoas you are choking,and the straps of your bra brokenfrom the hunger of my hands.I whisper my demandsas the wind seizes the leavesof the unsuspectingverdant, blossoming trees,demanding their obedienceand bending theminsistentlytoward the ground.You moan aloud.Your hair a shroudwhich, swept aside,reveals your open eyeswide as you devour me.We are one as we are bound to be.130PhantomI asked my motherif she thought most womenwould see a handsome man in me.She told me that they would,and that I needn’t worrywhen I deserved to feel confident,assured in myselfas all those photogenic men must be.A couple of female friendsI dared to ask had said the samebut I remained skepticalas a girl in school told me I had nice lipsand I was flattered but too shyand bashful to speak.Another girl told me that my legsand the butt to which they ledwere beautiful –I couldn’t tell if she was serious.A few women noticedmy dimpled cheeksand said that they were cute,or that my smile was a sweet one;mostly I felt I was ignored,though my accent sometimes workedto make me more attractive than I am,that strange inclinationto exotic lands manifest in me.My broad shoulders,my tucked in waist,my bony wrists and ankles,and my shaved headwith short stubbleand the lines of bald absencetraced upon my countered edges.My eyes, not beautifulbut somewhat strange131and shifting colours in the lightalways a little grey, then blueand green and brown;my unremarkable nose and brow.My reasonably large hands and feetand the parts of my bodywe don’t write about in poems,told that it’s wrong and thatno one wants to hear aboutsuch vulgar things.My voice, often deep,sometimes effete and usuallystrained by social stressand mumbled whenever I feel shy;my undefined and effeminateabdominal expanseof which I have felt so conscious;my moderately tall height,my pale skin,the stubble upon my chin;my nervously trimmed body hairand naturally near-barearms and legs and back.My genetic predisposition to heart attacks.I don’t know the manI see in the mirror, who shimmersin the glass before me.He doesn’t look like me.He doesn’t look like anythingwhich I have ever seen, or ever feltor ever known to be real;he is a phantom façadeand I am a beam of lightenergy floating through space.I cannot feel your handsplaced around my waist.Are they there?132StrawberryIt was how you tasted,strawberry blossom lipswith the hint of lavender airas I explored you,and that frigid windthrough half-cracked windowsnever sent a shiver down my spinebecause you radiated lightand warmth in the cocoon of my sheets.It was how you stared at me,and how I would turn to find you curledwith your eyes over me like a dark shroudamong the clear glass bottles,crumpled clothes that smelt like cigarettes,drunken memories and burn marksdotting the pale skinalong the back of my thin hand.It was how those days of lucky lightseemed longer when you touched meand stillborn when you left before the sun.It was how your hair fell, your skin felt,your lips brushed shyly across my own.It was how I held you as though I would hold arose without a thorn.It was how I let my hopefulhopeless heart get caught up in the magic ofyour handsonce more.Now the mirror reflects sadnessand I taste cigarettes and empty bottleswhich your lips have never touched.133Now the air is cold sometimes,the night is dark, the day doesn’t starton time, and I can’t rememberthe way it felt to love youbecause I can’t remember your eyesand that is when you really knowsomeone has left you.134ImperfectYou said you’d never beone of the pretty girls.With your cellulite, your acne scars,your beauty marksor the body you told me you couldn't bear.Heavy silence in the air.Your hot breath in my ear.I miss you.To love you until you would love yourselfa losing game, and in your smilea thousand lies you masqueraded.You didn’t need to change.Passing you the towel, your thighs now wet,my back a mess of scratch marks, sweat,and bruises I asked you to give me.Your hard, small, happy breastspressing against my kneecaps.Your stubborn innocence.The lily white fingers of your little handsentangled in mine as we made love.Your curling toes,the stubble underneath your armsand on your pubisyou kept apologising for while I ignored you.Imperfect sex,impermanence.Those things which you never let go,I couldn’t have cared less.135Come closeCome close until I taste you,my irreplaceable.The silence breaks as you moan.Your broken silence my design,these lips of mine.Bring your cruel hungry eyes hitheras you shiver, shake, and push me down.Paradise lost, found, and I am surrounded.Pull me inyour embrace.Your face, my face,the taste of you.Our sticky skin stickingto another,the sheets they shudder.These feverish arms,octopus-like writhing surgeand the neighbours might have heard us.This lust,this madness,lostin the dreams of past futures,the future’s pastand I’m alone again.136Rose goldRose gold patterns on the wall,this life in airand immaterial barren doorwaysthrough which I see myself.I am infinite as the sky is endlessand I am complete in this beautyof space, and lightas it filters through the eyesof those I loveand above methe sword of Damocles hangs lowso that I riseand falland am made wholethrough my survival;this piercing blowmy resolution.I hold my head above these cloudsof destitution and decayand I will not accept the fateof lonely men, crumblingas mountains one day fallonto the plains of sadness,indulgent despairand the darkness hidden therein my potential.See these summer leaveswaltz along the streets outside my window,and see my open eyesgaze into the future lightthat shines in the chambers of the dreamswhich I have always had.137See my hands grasp tightly onand the strength with which I holdthis Earth which I have heldand lovedand fought so long.138WomanIn my veins, you run the undertowthrough boiling blood and my dark sorrowborn of woman, son of man,stranger in the hollow of this planetand the lonely wasteland from which I have run.My fix, you are my ailment and medicine,surgeon and executioner.You are my temptress, godless faceshining between bottomless eyes.In my heart you are the hole,in my dreams my one companion,in the night, death waitsbreathing kisses in my soul.139I lay brokenI lay broken on the bed as evening falters,stalling her last careful glance over the snow.There is an emptiness to dreamingI didn’t know yet, and yet this slowand painful ego death just will not end.There were tears in both my eyesas I crumbled into the dust under the boardsand among the wet tiles of the bathroom floor,pleading for mercy with this cursethat still absorbs me.I considered all the waysin which I felt that I had died beforeand there were more than I could say.It is enough to have the presentand the distant fogof a yesterday I barely knowbecause tomorrow there are ways in whichthe echoes of these lines will fill my mouthI shout –the world burns and it is beautiful.My cosmos will return before tomorrowand first light’s just a few more rays away;the sea is greenas yesterday was pink and black;the night will keep your secret for youand then torture you with that.140Rain fallsRain falls on the uneven alley stone.Boarded doorways leading home.My loneliness in chloroform gauzeover my barely parted lipsoutstretched to kiss you,outstretched to seize what I haveonly in dreams, only in the seemingbelief that I will make it through.Thunder splits the twilight sky.Months since I nearly diedand I’m still cryingsometimes,in the silence of a room I’ve spreadmyself into; the peeling wallsand the dirty windowsI have taught myself to speakmy thoughts throughwhen you’re not here,when you’re not anywherethe hopelessness is nearagain.Again, the bitter endcomes threatening above the rooftops,above the half-hid treetops,above the lonely pit stopsdrunken men drink inand I have seen my reflectionin those glasses a little oftenfor my liking,for the way I think my life ends.Summer heaviness in the air.The window seems to breathe141a sigh as though someone is there,the airthe airthis breath,only death.142I wakeI wake to the cinder grey of the wallsfiltered heavily through blinds half-pulledfrom their perch, my window laughingin the morning air that dieswith the absence of sunlight.How cold I growwhile I stagnate in this insulator,this incubator I detach, and claw,and break through into dawnsI didn’t see waiting.Breaking into lifetimes I don’t wantor see some coming back from.I see my dawn grow black upon horizonsspread through the smeared glass.Nothing ever lasts.143The maniacThe old road whispers thingslike the dead men in my dreamswho cannot hear me.Forgetful daysas the lines on my hands redraw themselvesas abstract angles torn both forward and back,I fade to black.The maniac,I find the colour in the centre of the sunand fade to that.Beyond both you and Ithere is a code within your eyesI seek to codify,those starlight signs I’d light a vigil toor swore some oath or other by,this unbroken lullabygoes undimmed in the headspace of my dreams.Perhaps there is a wish that goes unwantedall throughout these half-dreamt days.Perhaps eternity bowed her heavy headas though to gaze right through me,assimilate the mind and body,bend the twisted heart abjectly,lingering in the light behind the eyesthere is a galaxy of stars that go stillborneach wasted morning,that yawning sky I looked intoand swore on no returningwhile three stars spread the dead light of thefallen far before me.144SeasonsAs seasons driftI driftaway,as if there were some other way to live thislife I’ve led thus far,so far beyond what I expected.There is a message in the fallen sun,the snowflakes heaven sent spinningthat spun and now they’re slushbeneath our feet,these old stone alleysand the frowning streetsalready littered with my stolen memories.There are pitches in the halo of the day,familiar melodies I’ve sung softly to myselfas I have watched each passing ray,the shadows forming murky visionswhile the old sun bowed her headas though she listened sadlyto the song etched in the keystone of my soul.145IncarnationShifting spectral shades of virgin lightgone unbroken through my child eyesI am eternal,I am impermanence in this suspended airwhich shimmers in the space before you.Incarnate, reverberations through the deadspaces of my recollection,protracted silences and half-unearthedskeletons I shiver at the thought of,my hauntingechoes gently through a darkly-lighted houseI move within, without the strength to lose itand so I’ll sit within these wallsa little longeras the pale sills gather dust each passing day.I am distant energy by now,beyond the parted clouds and among starsor even demons, infinite joyand sadness for the roughly trodden ground Icannot tread on;this mortal shell, this disconnection,disassociated misperception of the selfor perhaps of everybody else,though on that count I have to sayI’m undecided.146FearThe warmth of your skin is electricbeneath my handswhile the cold air loitersby the open windowpane.Your kneecaps on my shoulderswhile I look into your eyesand you describe the way you haven’t feltquite this way before,and I recite a poem I tapped into my phonewhen I got home last nightdrunk, stoned, and alone in the bedwhich still carried the scent of you.Your fear is my fearwhen you run your hot hands through your hairand tell me that you’re scared of falling inagain, I read your eyes againand see that you feel time stand stillwhen we’re togetheryet there is a risk to every lust,there is a danger in my trust,there is a shadow on your heartI can’t cast off for you,there is a question on your partI cannot solve for you,there is the chance that real as this isit exists only in the dark abyssbetween your past heartbreakand some bright futurein which I do not feature,because tonight is not the night to want me,these months are not the months to hold me,this waning gibbous moon is dead in the darkabove me147and the stars shed stillborn light onupward eyesin cynical skies I plead you realiseyou should not fear to love me.148BreakingThe sunlight on my ceiling is abstract throughthe curtain of your hair,as you trace a line of kisses down my neck andI believe for once that I existbeyond temporal and fleeting bliss and intolife beyond my dreams,where you have waited in the darkfor far too many years.The way you hold meas though I can never break,or how it feels to pull your fingersbetween mine and kiss you on the lips,that dimpled smilesplitting wide enough to show me this is real.I hold you closer and I feel you,your moans and little squealsas I kiss every inch of skin which you possess.The back of my hand,your planted kiss as we embraceand our sunlight is split by daytime rainso that the leaves on each tree dance and swaywith bonds which seem never to breakas long as they hold tightlyI hold you tightly.149Because of the wayBecause of the way you look into my eyes.Because of the way your delicate fingers fitthrough mineand hold on very tightly,as though the floor could disappearand I am your anchor in overturning seasset sail on this bed,suspended by thin air while we make love.Because of your radiant smilewhich brightens up my room whenever I kiss you.Because I can spend a day lost in your lightand scarcely notice timeas it flies past the open windowpanes,as billions of lives start and end and carry onI need only this, infinity in your faceand your lips on mine are planted lightly.Because of the way you laugh and hold meand I feel my darkness slink away with itsdismal tail tucked behind.Because in you I found a lifeI searched for years to loveyet never thought I’d find.Because when I wake in the morning you are mineand I don’t want anybody elseand you don’t want anybody elseand the sunlight holds us as two halveswhile I kiss your neck, you sigh,coming alive with me as the soft blue skysplits open.150AbstractionSmall coloured lights spread friendly patternson the ceilingin my abstraction,daydreaming of tomorrow yet again.The snow has settled now,its frigid fingers tempered downand warming with the first light of the day.The barren branches stand so stiffon these sentinel trees,the watchmen gone uncoveredthrough the heavy freeze.But there’s tomorrowpeeking through the twigs now barein the form of all the beautiful,colourful, temporal spring leavesI soon expect to see there,as I expect to one day bow my kneeand ask the woman of my dreamsif every secret wish I’ve ever dared to dreamcame true.As surely as I’ve lived to dream of loveI love you,my infinity in a thousand other lives thansimply thisto touch you feels like coming home;the trees will clothe their skinny bonesin robes of emerald green and goldand I will hold you to me all the while.Small coloured lightsdance in tandem shapes across the wallsin my abstraction,daydreaming of your dark magic eyes.151The sun comes through my windowevery morning now,my tears are drier nowthat you make me believe in karma.My dharma bum, my lover in spiritand an embrace that encircles seven suns,you are the one for whom I waitedbefore I even knew that you were there,and now I cannot help but see you everywhere,out in new worlds far more beautiful than this.152Do Not DisturbI put my phone on Do Not Disturbwhile you are with mebecause the world can wait as I cannot,to hold you and embrace all of your sighsas though they come from my own lungs,as though your lips were made to fit hereon my lips,my hands cradling yours while night falls.Behind the plain apartment dooryou are my everything,and when the daylight breaksI feel my heartbeatclimb because I know that you are with me,and you press lightly into mewhile we hold handsand occupy the paradise between our dreamsand waking life; as you were once in sleepyou are now here beside me.As you were once a hope you are a lightbrightening darknesses I swore would never end,and as our eyes meetfor the first time of the dayI am as vulnerable as the snowflakeswhich will fallon the next months of this romance,coating these windowpaneswhile we share in our hibernation.I am naked,fragile,open before you.I am afraid until I see you smile once again153and the heaviness in my chest expands,explodes, and my fear bows its headbefore the kingdom of your endless armsI would gladly fall into a thousand timesbecause your eyes on mine are fragile as my ownand you remind me of a woman I have known butnever met,slowly advancing through the shadows of my pastuntil I cannot help but let you into theshelter of my heart.154Only in my dreamsOnly in my dreams,but there you are naked before mein the half-dark room where we collide.There is the whisper of a fingertipacross the light skin of my chestas I inhale you, as I breathe you like airgrown thin now we are highand lifted in the sheets of my bed again.The pale gold of your skin glows amberin this lightwhile the music intermingles with our openwindow laughterand the agitated traffic on the road outside,busily humming with life I do not need when youare with me.Smoke contracts and releases itselfthrough the open panewhile you are nestledin the harbour of my arms,and your eyes are bottomless in this dark roomlike you are infinite,like you are everything,as though in you I see my heart unfoldand all its deepest wishes surfacing.155MoonlightMoonlight over us as we made love,you said those words I’d only dreamt ofhowever many thousand nightsalone in however many bedswith however many unfulfilled,unrequited romances I’d forget by morning.A pregnant pause in midnight airand then we kissed while our eyes metand I told you the same.I’d spent the day in fear of ever giving up thelittle secret which had builtand slowly risen in my chest,but midnight struck with your lipspressed and heldstill for an eternity while I embraced you.Our minds occupied by one anotherwe lay adjacent on the heavy sheets as I triednot to rush to write this poem.The true poet stays in the moment, I said.The true poet knows when he has feltone of those feelings he’ll never forget,and even if the lines to this poem don’t lastand even if a year goes pastand everything I have falls throughI’ll never forget the way it felt to be allowedto love youas I held youand I truly felt your heart beating within me.156The night we didn’t go to the partyThe night we didn’t go to the partywe stayed in our bed, your eyes stayedfixed on minewhile we both cried, the unspoken words,the feeling of belonging, the lowered lights.Holding you in my armsfeels like embracing my deepest happiness,my infinite wonderesswith all those playful kissesand piercing looks into my soul.My elusive love at last,where are your lips if not on mine,where are your arms if not surrounding meas the evening descends,as each caress feels like the pushwhich sends me overthe edge of what I ever expected to know.You are not the center of my worldbut every particle of dust,every little flower bud,every drop of water in the sea.I myself am like the air,and if it looks as though there’s nothing therebreathe one breath in,reach your hands into the skyand as I draw life from youyou draw life from me.The sunlight dies but she returns for us,within your gentle touchwhere infinity is never long enoughand winter paints her dazzling portraitson the ground.157I touch youI touch youas I would touch a soft thing,a fragile thing made by divine truthand with the beauty of a rose unspoilt.I touch you like the air touches my faceon tender mornings when I wakeand walk into the world with hopeful heart,and by your touch I am blinded,by your touch I am complete,by your soul and your lipsand your eyes I am made wholewhile I adore you.I touch youwith the caress of the moonupon the Earth with pale light;you are my sun, my beacon in darknessand the brightness which I can only reflect.I touch you as I would touchthe strands of spider websin which you’ve caught me,and so tenderlyyou wrap me in your silk tresses,those moments we have spentamong the infinite, among the legionsof lovers past and painted of,written of, never forgotten,and the joy which only you can give me.You alone,my queen on royal thronein darkest night,your radiance under my touchan epiphany.158If I had not held youIf I had not held youI would not believe that you are real,or that your small feet could just walk theearth beside me.If I had not kissed you,lip to lip and eye to eyeto my infinitiessplitting slowly as the day dies.If I had not heard your breath in my left earlate nights as the window crack yawned,your hands around my waist,your leg wrapped over mine,the silence between whispered goodnightsand small kisses on smiling cheeksto wake with.If I had not read your soulline by line in every aspect of your eyesI would not believe that you exist,like this, perfectly mine;the clock strikes out at midnightand the blue light of the frigid eveningdarkens.159Never forgetNever forgetthat my love for you is unconditional,automatically exploding from within.When you feel so closeit is as though we share a lung,this breathless closeness we designedlike little outlines round the both of us.When you make me feelevery single heartstring bow at onceyou are my orchestra,you are the final movementin a symphony of dreams long without closure.When I look at youI feel my shadows slink awaybecause the day is young,the cold has gone,the night can wait a while longer.160Dark eyesDark eyes,like the darkness in my poemswhich comes and goes each passing eveningmoving dully into morning,I move dully in the brilliance of your sightand all the majesty of you.My majesty,I concede myself to your dominion.Your hair, which falls in wild linesacross the light parchment of your face,over your pitch black eyesand to your infant mouth, your child’s joybursting out in secret smilesmeant for me.You are meant for me.Hands light as two pale feathersin my beast’s paws, I claw youand pull you deep into the lair.I will keep you there,my fragile thing, beyond wordsand understanding, take my rough touchand my brutal hungerfor what they’ve always been.I have always been searching,that coarse blood thick in my itching veinsrunning onward to you, through me,like brilliant light in old stained windows,once closed, curtained, boarded-up,now open, I see clearlyhow the hunger, the utter passion of my loveis far more dangerous than deathor any other fate from which I’d save you.161The beast in meUntamed, uncaged,I am a beast loose in the night,down the next street,under the candlelight in a small roomwhere I absorb you.My prey falls like a doe beneath my claws,my razor teeth and fire eyesspell quiet death, these final momentswhen I will leave you heaving your last breathundressed below the arbor of my love.Beneath the fury of the assaultthere is passion,a burning in my blood that goes unmatched,unseen, unfulfilled until I drain youand watch the sun set in blood red linesdown your spine.You are mine,your every sigh a symphonymade from the white noise of my thoughtsmixed with hypnotic coloursI could not describe.You will collapse at my commandas I dismantle you.Hungry for flesh in fallen darkness,I am the shadow in a dream,the light which does not reach below the bed,the skeletons kept,the silence between breaths.Sacrosanct, my love,I pull you from the nightlike tearing a rose with my teeth,petal by petal, thorn by thorn,until it passes.162AbsolutionUnlatch mefrom the aching in my limbs,the old dumb want which lingers onbeneath my skin forever.This cold foreboding terrorturned iridescent lusterupts in vicious bursts from day to day,night to night when I am wild,mad and angry, sad and dangerous.Untie the chains;break the cycle or I will hunt you endlessly,only to bite again and again,only to win again and again,my countess, white as an orchidstained beneath the blood above your flesh.Through dark woods I’ll walk behind you.Through this madness I will have youcaptive as a slave,my light kisses down your naveland your eyelashes fluttering with pleasure,tender gestures as you climax foreverand ever as my doll, my lolita I will hold youin my cold marble arms while you’re asleep,porcelain skin and little breaths, my feather.End it for me, or for youthere waits only madnessin the constancy of this,these debased urges, my raw and primal kiss,the erotic turbulence built into my body’s willwill have you naked, prepared before melike a feast I eat again and again,your shaking gasps my absolution, darling.163CentreThe hinges on the door creaked lightlybetween the dead echoes of our kissesin this dim apartment,nudging the front door closed with a blind footas I assailed you with the burden of my love;the totality of it,the ferociousness of it,the responsibility of feeling itwithout shying away.This morning I had to check –half-awake –I wasn’t dreaming,as within your forever auburn eyes I saw theburning constellationswhich light the distant worlds of youruniverse,just as bright now as they were thenwhen you looked back at me and lit up everyvalley of my darkness,a light that’s lasted since that moment andwhich falls on me stillas both my eyes grow damp with thoughts of you.I wish that I could bring your body into mine;your heart and mind could have a home and bethe two best parts of me,my eternityI feel you shining in the centre of my soul.164Believe in usI have felt infinityin the deep heat of your armsextending outward and around my captive waist.I have seen the moon cast its last lightbeyond the outline of your face,your hands in minewhile we share permanence.I have known love as your dark hair,your earthen eyes, your tender smile.I have been to paradise between your kissesand the careful whispers which I knowmore than I hear,more than I need you to explainI read your radiant eyesand see the sun which setsand rises just for us,my love, my universe,my best friend and my angelboth of the morning and the duskI’ll love you until the ashes fallfrom both my handsand all my bones are dust,believe in us.165I do not write poetryI do not write poetrybecause I love you.Because you occupy the space in myselfwhich those words once filledI do not need them.That wanting expanse of laughter which I letring out as silence cloaked in sonnet linesis broken now by the corners of your smilecurving inwardly, the way which only yoursmiles seem toand as I read you, your galaxy eyes,I see the vastness of the infinitespread far beyond black words over lightas though there’s meaning once againand that’s enough for me.166How I love youHow I love youis not of breaking hearts in fall upon fall,or bitter springtime in the nadir of myselfwhere you gave birth to lightmy path has been set forth,and there my eternity comes beamingrainbows through the bright core of my sight.How I love youas I am falling, as I am fleetingchance upon chance, like fast asylumdashed against the rocks of a false homelandwhile I cling to you, this beda life raft upon seas I can’t contend.How I love youbeyond self or selfishnessor blind obsessionclashing with the surges of my soul,battering ram bursts into the hard lightof your transcendental heartI have sung, and singand wish the night would fall soonerthan ever it has seemed,the same old dreamsdie in the last pause before I wake,the same old shakes,the same old nervous itchand terrible ticksecond by second,slowly erased to nothing.How I love youmore than myself,more than is healthy,167more than I could have knownbefore I set eyes on youI did not have eyes,I did not have life,I was not born before I met youmy irreplaceable, infinite angellet’s live our livesas though they’ve just begun.168KeystoneThe keystone of our love is herewithin our vulnerable eyes,yours on mineand on the waning afternoon lightdarkening gently as the day slips by.Here, in your playful lipsand their recurrent tendernessas I float onto the bed and you cling to mejust as the strongest autumn leaves will hold,fall, and revolve oncethrough the centre of my soulor by my window.I’ll let you go when the old sun breaksor when she decides not to risebut simply glow behind your eyes forever,so tenderly, your radiant lightfalls like a feather from the tail of my dreamas I grow wings and your heart guides me.Here, in this momentand the next,and the next;in each day that we shareand every one that we have left.169I fellI fell in love with your eyes first.The way that I was able to see youand all of you in just a glance,your honest irises so beyond doubtI could not help but know youand then I loved youbeyond what that word meant,beyond what I had strengthened myself for.My old defences made easy ruinas the autumn fell,those early laughs and movie screenings whilethe weather was still warm.In just a blink we both fell underas the year died, as the snow came,as the sunsets counted themselves up.I held you closer with each morningas you became the object of my dreams,setting aside little corners in my mindand in my heartto keep you there, and have you with me,and let your beautiful soul inside me,my thoughts ceaselessly of you.Every smile we have shared is its own universemy everything, my light,I love youmore than I have language to describe.The spell of you, the happiness of you,my changed life, the infinityof us, our embraces, those endless gazesinto the depths of your eyesand every detail there I’ve memorised.170MayaWhen there are no other wordsI whisper your name to myself,half-dreamt at the threshold of my lipsmy breath escapesand forms itself into the shape of you.I would not be the firstto capture love in words without success,but I do not need language when you’re with meor even anything except your smileplaying at the corners of your lipsand in your kisswhere I am everything.171DoorwayLoving you has been like opening a doorwayinto life,out of my bedroom into the sky,out of the clouds down to your doorstep,I descend and you occupy mewith your tenderness.Unrelenting tendernesshidden in every kiss we’ve sharedand kept forever.I hold you in my arms, my dove,my feather light as I lift you like a thief,claw you, my razor teeth gnawingthe fury from you, your moanswhich only I have knownand pleasure you never knew existedbefore I existed with youneither of us reached this nirvanafar beyond youout into the night which exists only for us.The night belongs to us.Dimples in the corners of your smile,my heart is open as you unlatch every boltand we step into the world as lovers.Until the end we share each other.172ApologiesSlipping into rhyming poetry;it happens naturallybut can feel a little tweeand I’ve noticed people like it less thanblank expanses.With that in mind,midnight approaches and your sleeping arm isstill resting on mine.It feels like diamonds against the dirt fromwhich they’re dug,like a pure white dove(or some other blank bird)flying into air that’s filled with poison.It feels like you’re too good for meor far too clean, or far too loving,or misunderstanding of my stupid,self-destructive time bomb of a heart.It feels like I’m the frameand you’re the work of art.(My apologies.)It feels like I am finally whole.It feels like all the pain can be let go now.It feels like all the air drops from my lungs –I draw for breath that doesn’t come,I pace the room in nervous circles,make up lies or false excuses,blame myself or anyone else I have in mind,lie in bed and smoke and whine,all because it terrifies me to my coreto love you.And now,even now perhaps in your dreams you are afraid173because the truth isI was not prepared to meet youand immediately know that I am with youalways,completely,wherever you go,indivisible as one whole.My angel, my saviour and my entire soul,I would spend five thousand years alone if Icould live to be with you.174I'd sayI’d saystay away from people who will fuck you up,stay away from the big bad drugs,stop looking for love because it will find you.Your potential is your strengthand your weakness when not met.There are things you don’t know yet which willchange everything,and people in your life you don’t owe anything.Smile when you can, but only when you want tobecause putting on a brave faceis a coward’s choice.When you can’t speak,your art can be your voice.When you can’t breathe,when you have seizures,when you crave knives or needles,put yourself inside your mother’s armsand slap yourself;you’re doing welland all this noise, these peoplecan’t help or do this for you.I’d saydon’t mess this up;you have some sense but no ideaof how lucky you are.Keep your word,don’t pretend,and let friendships endif they had no good reason to begin.Your greatest sin is your selfishness,but there will come a moment –175at a time you least expect it –when you will meet someone who shows youwho you are.I’d sayshe is not far away,so don’t give upAlexyou have a lot to live for,a lot to give her,and she deserves a manwho isn’t torn to pieces.She deserves a man who knows these truthsand writes them down,cuts them out with ink and re-absorbs them.You can have everythingif only you have strength.I’d saytake your own adviceand go to bed.176WinterCrumbled green clustersin the small ceramic bowl,my mind is normal now,my spirit immortal in this never-endingcataclysm of self,unrest, unruliness, and unhealthy decayas little by little I changeand again and againI have the same small doubtsrearrange and fade into another.You saw me thennow you see something other.When friends let their best effortsdie under the same porch where that old dogonce hid;dogmatic silenceas the sound of the last exhale sighsand the room rises into smoke curls,dying embers half-reflected.Dead grey glass as winter livesnew lives not remembered.177LieMy heart holds secretsof which I wish that I could speak;these depressive tendenciesand barely living memories which cloud my day.The panic attacksand the cold, brutal thoughts I harbour;my shattered armour at my feetretreating from the daylight yet again.Send help,I am not well.I sit in rooms and wonder how in hellI got there,this heavy atmosphere which chokes me,the waves of sickness over meas I smile and say again that I’m alright.The coming night will cloak me,far from putting on a maskI spew these thoughts onto the pageand burn it.You meet my eyes but don’t discern it,this painwhich I will keep inside myself forever.178Beyond darknessThe pace of the past,reversed second hand movementscounterclockwise round the pale maskwhich hides the dismal daysI’ve lived and plead to leave behind.What is so hard about forgettingor reliving, or antagonising my own lifeto oblique magic.That which is lostwill linger, that which is foundwill detonate singularitiesat the centre of my soul.Let me not be the man you sawbut who you would see,beneath the awkward eyesthe shy, hurt heartI am a man.Looking for lightout of loneliness,I am a man.Yet the day has collapsedso that I see only ruin in the second handbent this way and that,cracked and soon to meet its end in silence.Night-time lapses of the heartpull feeble pranks against my soul,but there I gobeing sentimental over againwhen the end has all but met usand the friendships that have left usburnt tenderly to ash.179This catch-22 of lossis like a solemn premonition beneath the waves,this undertow and its incisionshows the lifeline of my soul run outwardthrough bright waves and silver shootsof water in blue air beyond darkness.Beyond darkness there is light.Beyond darkness there is light.180DepressionI couldn’t go outside today,I was crying too much.Heaving heavy tears like they were corpsesfor the mass grave of my facewhich I fill slowly.There is a darkness coming onwith every morningand I feel its shadow in the fibre of my skin,so deep within I cannot help but heed it.Crying so much that my eyes burntwo red scorches in my cracked desert landscapewith no periphery, no iris and no pupil,dull welts which closethen open with reluctance.Dull pain which fadesthen builds to something else,the echoes of my voicewhich slowly grow dimmer,this prison which they call my mental healthdissolving round the ghost within the shell.It feels like I am dying slowly,this modicum of light left in my heartbarely illuminatingthe fading scars of panic passed.I asked for what I felt I could achievenow I’m defeated, the sunrise is white noise,I wake shaking in the late hours of the nightand wait impatientlywith thoughts of abject suicidewrithing between my boneslike the worms which soon will rest there.181I am so scared I choke on fearand gasp for airwhere no one else can hear me,the struggles of my soul pervading theatmosphere I breathewhile time just leaves mealone in this last hour of the dead,the world viewed through the shadows of myhead and deathly sorrow.182AnxietyTears in my eyes at evening’s end,I’m feeling older lately.Sworn to secrecy by secret pride,I wither slowly in a violent lightescaping past the blinds I draw at midday.Convalescent in my shame,my final heartacheand its dreadful resting place.My eyes red, my teeth chattering no lessI wipe my face and step out of the doorstripped naked.Heavy pressure on my eyes, my hands are shakinguselessly at either side, my breathing heavyin the morning as I meet your wide blank stare.Shadows warping in the light,the day unfolds itself like statues that I passwith muffled mouths that seem to shout,I am alone in this cacophony of light andrandom sound.As in my soul, as in my secret,this hissing vaguely in my silence,split two ways between the evening’s songthe day is done, and I am home foreverhere, in the abscess of your armsI find a shelter.There is a darkness in my bloodthicker than sorrow, thicker than sadness,thicker than bickering madnessplaguing me from day to dayand yet the song remains the sameand I fall deeper into shadow.183I gather noiselike a hurricane pulls debris to the centreand revolve slowly through the smoke,smouldering embers as you chokeand fall madly underneath my spell forever.My heart is sick of this, tormented antagonistfalling prey to my own tricks.Deeper down wells of forlorn shadowsI breathe the emptiness,I am the hollow pressurepounding at the gateway to your chest.Anxiety, I’m sick,terrified beyond my witsand deeper than you’d ever think to look.Beyond the obvious, the ominousinnocent man you took and made a symbol,I am the hatred in your heartand beyond every mirroryou slowly see clearer.I pause,wonder again when I lostthe ability to do it well.This pretence bids me ill at evening’s end,this ladder of the mind I still descenddeeper into the blue heart of the nightI long have lived through.The darkness really wants you.184DrowningPeople move so quickly that they blur,going in and out of livesin ways which still grow clearer as I age.And I have felt time pass but not like this,where history is a giant scary beastready to hunt me, catching my scent,chasing down my lazy stepsas I lose sight of shelter.The past is now a vicious thing,a dark and dirty thingI’ve locked my trauma in and left to fester.But the day wakes.The people wake.Some of them call me,text me, reach their hands out to me,and it’s like the past is round my neckchoking me to death as I reply.They say:leave it behind, leave it right therewhere you left it long ago.You don’t need it anymore.And I reply:but if I don’t need the pastwhy did I do itin the first place?Why do we do things in the first place?Why do we all share blame and guiltand other thingswe’ll soon be asking to forget?Fighting to make memorieswe’ll soon want to erase,185I wonder what the attraction isand why it still persistswhen I’ve learnt better.I wonder why I lie like thisat 6am,my woman fast asleepon the far side of the bed,thoughts of birth and deathand the shitstorm in-between,thoughts of passing lifeand the bucket lists I laugh atwhile the corners of my mouth stay still.Sometimes I feel my life grow still,like I am standing in a rising floodand I can see the debris coming up,the helicopters, the shouts, the screams,the people saving people saving themselveswhile every sound’s on mute.And I am standing, staring,still as a totem on the outskirts of townas though I’m waiting for something to happen.As though the water isn’t risingbut I am falling into earth,bit by bit, limb by limb,still as death while no one’s watching.186RevelationThere is a solitudein knowing yourself too well;there is a silencelike a shroud over my secrets.These long days kept in my darknessfeel like missed grasps at holding onto the cold bitter end I have been dreading.Where was I when my friends grew old?Locked in dark rooms or lost and stateless,letting music cloud my senseswhile I watched my features age,the vase’s flowers slowly fadeas they suffocate in shallow water.Long days spent with no response,no second wind, no better chancebut I lay numbed out on the bedwhile the snowflake feathers driftlike the halo round some angelpassing sadly by my window.This new silence is within me,so deep it seems unbreakableand my screams into the nightjust do not reach it,pleading with myself, this never-endingattempt to keep my demons hidden.“How do youfeel?”Sad,today.Like the dog has died,the ghost gave up,the smiles faded,and the little things were all too much.187The time ticks downwhile I’m in thought again, alonefor the hundred thousandth lifetimeI’ll dream away my daylight,drink away my sunshineas though darkness has some sympathy for me.There’s no sympathy for men like meso I crawl beneath the dust and lie therewhere only eyeless shadows festerand the blackness blindly lengthensuntil everything is gone.It’s pure emptiness inside,pure chaos for us nowthe seventh trumpet sounds yet I stay silent.I can feel myself in the past,the past in myself,the huge weight of the future hung above meas I scream out amidst sirens,throw punches against a brigade of defenseand lose battles in dead silence,home alone, stoned, sadly with my thoughtsa brash catastrophewhich can only end in death.There’s nothing left.The passion of the past,the ease of knowing less,the comfort of conformity,normality, now goneas I am headed nowhere.Headed homeward drunk as hell.I’ll get there next.Better or worsewe all burn sometime.188Making loveFinding my lovetook more years, more lifethan I have language to describe.The endless longing,the needless sufferingwhen somewhere in the worldthe treetops rustledand she nestled in her bedwaiting for my soul.Making lovein your childhood bed,the shutters drawn,the lamps extinguished.Love, as the bedhead rumbles,the silence holding us in place,cheek to cheek, lip to lip,my irrepressible.I hold you with such tendernessyou could break at the smallest touch,you could leave at the smallest whimand I would be gone with you,lost without you like a shadow without light.Without you there’s only darkness.I place you above life itselfwith the angels and their endless radiance.189BeastLike a rough beast I have walked the nightwith hungerbecause I remember how it feels to love you,I remember how it feels to hold you, kiss you,and compel you with the power of my heart.I am starving for your voice in my ear,your hand upon my arm,your eyes which will meet mineharden, and become diamonds.I want to consume the essence of youand never leave you, and be one with youuntil the sun dies in the skyand we are nothing.I am hungry for youin a way that I have never known,my lioness, my conquestI will assail you with a force beyond controland you will know that I adore youthrough the kisses which I plantand the roses that bloom from your burnt skin,turning red and white before my eyes as youflourish forever.190YoursI do not know how others fall in loveor how they feel when their eyes meet,parting lips to plant a kiss upon the other.All I know is what I feel when you are here,as before my eyes my every dream is manifestedand I know that yours is the last hand that Iwill hold,yours is the last word that I will hear,yours is the last mark upon my heart and itwill always stay there.Inevitably you have become a part of my soul,where I have kept the little things,the secrets that go beyond my reach;your scent in the air,the sunlight on the ceilingmaking quiet patterns,the songs we sing together,the jokes we makeand your laugh that fills me up,our walks along the tree-lined avenues,my arms around your waist,cupping your breasts with my hands,sharing your breath while we are closer thanit’s possible to be,in days both past and yet to comehand in hand, lip to lipI break at the mere mention of your nameas all my love comes bursting from me,straight to you, to every future waitingwhere my heart is yours forever.I do not know how else to love you.I do not know how else to livethan to live by you,with you,191surrounded by youlike a cloak against the cold,a shieldagainst cruel arrows that would mark me,a warmth within my bloodwhich gives strength to me.I see the echoes of my eyes in your eyes,the imprint of your heart on my heart,the all-consuming power of my lovebursting from my chest with violent lightyou do not shy away from,and you do not let me downexcept to whisper in my earthings which I had never dreamt would happenhave come from your bright soullike bold sun rays which end the nightleaving only us and endless daylight.192DarlingDarling,I have poured myself into you like raindropsover glassobscuring the dark and dangerous night,where beyond the candle glowthere is only darkness.Your hands in mine,the burnt sienna of your skinwrinkling as your eyes absorb me,your smile overthrows meand I am lost within your light.You have taught me how to get through lifewithout pretending,opened my heart to dreamsI’d never dreamt of havinglong years I doubted I would meet you.Heavy tears for every time I’ve hurt you,my love I would die to keep the shadows fromyour doorstepand fight every demon with my teeth and fistsand fury until I defeat them.It makes my blood so hot, like fire runsin vicious rivers through my bodyalight at the thought of you, the threat of youvanishing as if you had just been a dream.After all.After all the pain there is now light,to my surprise and my unending gratitudethere is a star to guide me,there is a future for meand she is brighter than the sun,larger than the galaxyeven as she rests at my side,193my blessed lifewhich continues without ceasingwould have no meaning without Maya.I have pinched myself and woken from mysleep to find youand I cannot believe that you are there,your slender arms beneath your headresting on the sheets we boughtand share togetherthese long days I forget to appreciateand hate myself for ever losing.There is something inside youwhich can’t be foundanywhere else I’ve ever looked,and I have searched beyond the stars andinto blackness and then back.I can’t define itor make sense of how it feels,this radiance you emanate so meekly,this tenderness you havewhich goes outside me,expanding far into the air around us.I share your breath as we kiss words intothe other’s heart,I love you darlingas no poem could ever tellbeyond myself or any other,there is only you, under your spellwhere I will gladly live forever.194The worldAll the women in the worldand my tunnel vision circles round youlike a halo,my angel there is light in youand it is brighter than a thousand suns,a thousand supernovas bursting in your eyes,beyond my life, beyond our lives togetherthere is something eternal in this love,going far beyond either of us,far beyond the pale glass I stare throughlong flights to meet you,long days without you,feeling incomplete without my soul.No one else would understand the language inyour eyes;it is mine, it is for me, you are for meand I will be yours foreverin this embrace we hold across continentsand oceans deeper than dark thoughtsdreamt before I met you.Now I am better, stronger,in a mad dashfor the straightest pathway to you,and I will get therebeyond our kisses into the rest of timewhere together we will never die.Finding you, my lily, my rose,my amethyst lighting up the room around us,you glow and I lift you from the earthlike treasure.I kiss along your navel,your neck,your collarbones like marble etched195into the shape of a dream I had for yearsbefore I believed in you.Before I met you I knew nothing.I felt nothing.You took my hand and led me into my own heart,into my own soulwhere you are queen,beyond myself or anything.There is so much light nowI squint and fear the shade but cannot find it,though I fall beyond foreveryou are blinding, guiding my wayas we navigate the world together.196JoySo sweet,so innocentas I came into your life like a thiefwanting your heart for my own,coveting your love for myselfwhen I saw what you could give me.Suspended in the whirlwind of my thoughtsyou’ve lived weightless for so long,taken through the storm right to my centrewhere the stillness stops revolving,the noise quits all its moaningand it’s you and I at last,hand in hand while the air moves past.My little dove, my flowerblossoming into a woman day by dayI see your smile and your eyes both changein subtle ways, turning sadder yet againas all the pain comes pouring inand I can’t stop it.I can’t heal it, or feel it for youso you don’t have to,and I collapse under the weight of wantingthings to change,to have you smiling and laughing as we laughedon better days.You will laugh like that again.You have not lost mefor while you breathe I have reason to breathe,while you hurt I cannot help but hurt,where you walk I will follow,and while you struggle197I will carry you through darknessto the light side of the globe,the patch of sun which burns on just for uswhere there is trust, a deep connectionbuilt in both our eyes to tell me this is fate.Tell me what could replacethe intuition in my heartwhich says I’ve found the one who waited,the one who knew someday I’d make itdragging my last strength along the road.The one who gives me joy for daysas I attempt to memorise her face while staringdeep into those eyes with hidden depths whichno one could dive intoand no one ever tried to,for no one else had loved you when we met.I turned around and had no chance,a single glance, some little words were saidand that was that,now I cannot turn back because I love you.The joy leaps to my mouth and from both eyesas I caress the little rings I bought on thebest day of our livesand hold visions in my head of wedding dresses,better days, warm Los Angeles,children’s toys and big adventuresacross the world, through our livesand to the threshold of the endwhere we’ll both step forwardin peace together,lip to lip, hand in hand, you and I like thisforever.198All of my heartAll of my heart.All of the sadness and mad dashesthrough the darkest parts of my soul.All of the strained strengthand battered down defences against thestarkness of my lifeand the richness of what you offer to me,just therefrustratingly within my reachthere is a dream I dreamt so long it’s blurryhidden in tormented furytaking all of my heart,I love you.I love you.I love you so muchI cannot breathe without you.That any doubt which others cast upon youseems laughable,improbable,simply wrong when I look at youand see a woman with my future in her eyesand endless demons in her lifewhich I would fight foreverif only they’d strike me.So much I give all of my heart.I forsake all love that passedand which goes now into my darkness,the years which I spent blindedand cloaked in armour made of lies,rivers of filthy poison wineI drank and died and then you found me.199And you hold tightlyin the cold winter night when I am tear-soakedyou are so close your breath will warm meduring dreams I’ll see your face and smilemy face pressed into the pillow,your arms tightened all the whileround my heart which bursts with lifeand purpose just for you.200StrengthHalfway across the countryhere, to youyet I am alone in this bedwhile you sleep over therea dazed and unkempt messI attempt to consoleas my pillowcase grows wetand the darkness rears its head.You are not wellmy little angel,my crippled animal in a cardboard boxwith holes punched in and some water in a cup,I don’t know how to heal this cut or stitchthis wound for you.I don’t know how to take my love and send itsstrength through you.In deep commiserationand consoling convalescingI hold your hand with tender gesturesand brush my lips on you,my frail featherplucked from the tail of a flightless bird.Confined to this small bedyou are my everything.Take my love and use it as best you can.Your strength will comeand bring the smiles I rememberlightning the apartmentlike the sun belonged to me,flooding every momentwith emotions I had dreamed201but would never have believedwithout first seeingand I have seen infinitythrough the gateway of your eyes.202Saturday morningThe sun is out,a cold Saturday morningshowing her featherslike a peacock in deep heat.One or two birds have braved the snowand landed gently on the twigs which replacedbranches stripped of leaves,long limbs that could be deadif not for springtime.Sparse traffic on the roadsand spare snippets from the sidewalkwhile the world slowly wakes up.The day will grow momentumand soon we’ll all be spinning with each other,dancing the same ritual dance that each newlight affords us.I drank a little too much last night.Met a friend, talked about time,stumbled home in squiggly lines,made love and then lost consciousnessas my woman held my hand.Now I write poetry in the darkwhile I wait for her to waketo another long, strange daywith all the struggles, ups and downs whichsomehow always find me.Time will do that to you,and the past will happen again and again.It’s like the game is rigged,the record skippedand you are staticwhile your illusion crumbles.203Don’t forget the sun will risewhether you’re ready or not.Whether you’ve made plans or notsomething else will make them for you.Time is like a pervert catching us sittingon the john,watchingwhile we struggle with our pants and slamthe door.204Just keep writingJust keep writingI say to myselfas all the cheques from books I haven’t soldand heights I’ve never reached are cashed.Just keep writingthough only a handful will ever read youand there is no poetry on printing pressesanymore.Just keep writingagainst the pretensions and expectationsand pseudo-intellectual connotationsof the thing which makes your heartbreak open most.Just keep writingbecause it is as easy as speaking,because without it you would screamnonsense into the silenceand quickening madness.Just keep writingbecause it is the only thingwhich you can’t help but do,which you can’t fail to feel,staying awake that ten minutes longer.Long enough to jot down another one of theselittle pieces of yourself,and in the morning you read themand remember that at least there’s alwaysthis.205ThoughtsNo space for thoughtson these streets, cloaked with memorieslike a crash where there is bloodand glass and all the glistening.Timid thoughts, angry thoughts,thoughts which make me want to cut them outI hate them so much.The phone rings and I don’t answer,the door knocks but I don’t rise.My head full of small bits of lifetorn apart and pieced togetherbit by bit, the sellotape catching in the sun.No time, no time to face thisfire without some ash within my blood.The smoke, the liquor,the disconnected dreamer who can’t sleep,who can’t eat, who can’t see.No space for thoughts but space for poetry.Bad poetry, old poetry,written a thousand times and where’s it got meif not the same direction.If not the same journeywhat’s the differenceanyway?206StarsThe light has that early morning clarityshining pale blue over the snow.The treetop twigs,the river of ice that’s partly melted,the roads empty as a gym behind a bar.Empty as a crowd when every song’s the same,every sentiment’s the same.The same girl,the best girl,the missing girlwe are all waiting on.It feels like waiting on the future.It feels like waiting for myself to changewhile knowing better.Knowing sense without believing,knowing shame without remorse,hatred without anger,anger without violence,sadness without dying.But I have cried my share of tearsand done my share of lying in the dark,my back to the cold mattress as I stareup at the ceilingand pretend that I can see all of the stars.207CloserFingers of light slowly lose graspon the cliff-edge horizon looming vaguelythrough the distant bluras day by day the clouds moveinto time-lapse waltzes,dancing through a sky I struck with goldand red flames burning, dying warmthI feel fading after long days deadin hazy spaces shared with all those dreamersI’ve dreamt of living, dying,breathingthe same fire that they breatheduntil it burns meinto embers.Night clutches at my neck as I crawl inward,cold little lashes from the air above my skinas all these days endbefore they seem tostart,this dying art of poetry,this feeble-minded lotteryI’ve counted losses for so long.Midnight’s kiss lingerslike a lover playing games,the heavy air, the pregnant pausewhich mothers nothing,the violence in my core while others speakbecause I burn like few men burn,as in my heart,as in my heartache,as in the desperate want I have for lifeand death,and all the unspeakable frustrationsI can see will never find resolve.208There is something in my soulthe words won’t ever reach,the explanations won’t amount to much,which can’t be touched.There is something I can’t namebehind my mask of feeble bonewhose torment is the gift I’m given,as long as the poem is writtensadly as the evening holds me closer.209
Alexander Wright is a poet and masteringengineer from Australia. Born in 1993, he spentthe majority of his childhood in Melbourne witha couple of significant periods spent living inFrance and Fiji. After leaving high school at16, Alexander underwent a long period oftreatment for mental illness. This culminatedin his successful application to BerkleeCollege of Music (Boston, MA) in 2016.
Alexander currently lives in the United Stateswith his partner Maya.
http://alexanderwright.com/
Front photograph: Philip Wright
Back photograph and design: Alexander Wright
Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved